TM
TM
THE LOST DATASLATE
The Lost Dataslate
L
Lead Developer
Tim Huckelbery
CREDITS Credits
E
Executive Game Designer
Corey Konieczka
W
Writing and Development
Matthew Eustace and Craig Gallant
E
Executive Game Producer
Michael Hurley
E
Editing and Proofreading
P
Publisher
Andrew Kenrick and Matthew Harkrader
Christian T. Petersen
D
Dark Heresy Design
S
Special Thanks
Owen Barnes, Kate Flack, and Mike Mason
Playtest Coordinator Ronald DeValk; “The Librarians” Pim Mauve
with Gerlof Woudstra, Keesjan Kleef, Jan-Cees Voogd, Joris Voogd;
G
“No Guts No Glory!” Sean Connor with Stephen Pitson, Adam Lloyd,
Graphic Design
Ben Newman; “Veterans of a Psychic War” Benn Williams with
Shaun Boyke
Chris Lancaster, Aric Wieder, Rebecca Williams, and Eric Young;
C
Trevor Stamper with Brian Gilkison, John Olszewski, Caitlin Stamper,
Cover Art
Steve Harmon, Jake Harmon, Dave Boruch; Ryan Powell.
Wayne England
I W
Interior Art
John Blanche and Jan Doležálek
G L
Games Workshop
Licensing Managers
M
John French, Andy Hall, & Owen Rees
Managing Art Director
Andrew Navaro
H
Head of Licensing
A
Jon Gillard
Art Direction
Mike Linnemann
P
H
Head of Licensing, Legal,
and Strategic Projects
Production Management
Andy Jones
Eric Knight
L
Licensing & Development Coordinator
Deb Beck
H
Head of Intellectual Property
Alan Merrett
FANTASY
FLIGHT
GAMES
Fantasy Flight Games
1975 West County Road B2
Roseville, MN 55113
USA
Copyright © Games Workshop Limited 2012. All rights reserved. Games Workshop, Warhammer 40,000, the Warhammer 40,000 logo, Warhammer 40,000
Roleplay, the Warhammer 40,000 Roleplay logo, Dark Heresy, The Lathe Worlds, Calixis Sector, and all associated marks, logos, places, names, creatures, races and
race insignia/devices/logos/symbols, vehicles, locations, weapons, units and unit insignia, characters, products and illustrations from the Warhammer 40,000 universe
and the Dark Heresy game setting are either ®, TM and/or © Games Workshop Ltd 2000–2012, variably registered in the UK and other countries around the
world. This edition published under license to Fantasy Flight Publishing Inc. Fantasy Flight Games and the Fantasy Flight Games logo are trademarks or registered
trademarks of Fantasy Flight Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved to their respective owners. No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval
system, or transmitted in any form by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording or otherwise, without the prior permission of the publishers.
Product Code DHP01
For more information about the Dark Heresy line, free downloads,
answers to rule queries, or just to pass on greetings, visit us online at
www.FantasyFlightGames.com
2
Honoured Madam Inquisitor Leta,
It has been several long days since the last transmission from our agent. It pains me to say so, but we must assume the mission into the Lathes was unsuccessful, especially given the threatening and cryptic nature of the final transmission. This bodes ill for the Ordos, and our contingency plans should the Fulcrum Directive prove necessary.
The Lost Dataslate
All would not appear lost however. The Emperor was surely with His servant during the mission’s termination, for we were gifted with a battered data-slate that was delivered via an unknown courier. It was almost marked for disposal when one of my more perceptive Acolytes noticed a series of small, otherwise unremarkable etches along the side. These matched our missing agent’s vox encryption base code, and prompted intensive inquiry into the slate’s contents.
It lasted many candles, but we have managed to peel away layers of dross consisting of endless harvest reports to reveal carefully buried data. While it is not complete, it would appear our agent managed to gather together portions as a measure against an unsuccessful return. The images and data included may still allow the Holy Ordos to better prepare our sector for the eventuality that the Cult of the Machine turns against us. Their forces grow in power with each year, and such power will not sit idle for long. Only preemptive measures can ensure the safety of the Calixis Sector and our own Holy Mission as directed by the Emperor Himself.
In His Name and for His Glory, Karolious, Hereticus
3
The Lost Dataslate
4
The Lost
Dataslate
Hail all loyal Tech-Priests and other servants of the Machine
Cult! Welcome to The Lost Dataslate, a compilation of
additional material for The Lathe Worlds, the Dark
Heresy supplement covering the Adeptus Mechanicus within the
Calixis Sector. Here players and GMs can find new origins for
their Mechanicum characters, a new NPC to guide them within
the Lathes system, additional armoury weapons and gear, and
revelations for one of the more mysterious of the Lathe Worlds.
Fire the Forges with these new blessings of the Omnissiah!
Forge World
Origins
“You’ve never been to Cyclopea, have you? I went there once. It was
eerie. They say there are one hundred Servitors for every one man on
those stations. The silence was like a tomb. I’d never go back.”
–Delfin Zway, archeotech trader
A forge world Homeworld Origin is a great starting
point for any Acolyte who wishes to begin his career
in the dank, cramped, and polluted worlds of the
Lathes. Life within a forge world is exceptionally difficult, and
only the hardy and strong survive. Those who show any signs
of weakness are cast out, or worse, repurposed into mindless
Servitors, forever destined to a menial existence of endless
repetition. However, while many forge worlds tend to be similar
in design and purpose—massive manufacturing capabilities,
the ability to smelt untold quantities of raw materials, endless
cogitator banks storing fragmented data, and so on—not all
forge worlds are the same, and even the Calixis Sector has
several that vary greatly. The rules below detail a number of the
various forge worlds within the Calixis Sector and how players
might use them to shape the origins of their characters.
SELEcting a ForGE
WorLD Origin
Players select forge world Origins in the same manner as
selecting any of the other Homeworld Origins from the
Dark Heresy Core Rulebook. This is usually as simple as
declaring the choice during character creation, but players
should check with the GM to ensure the changes do not
disrupt the upcoming campaign.
A forge world Homeworld Origin can only be taken by
Adepts, Assassins, Guardsmen, Scum and, of course, Tech-
Priests. Arbitrators, Battle Sisters, Clerics and especially
Imperial Psykers are forbidden from selecting a forge world as
their Homeworld Origin unless their GM otherwise permits.
Forge World Origin Rules
The following rules apply to all characters who choose a
forge world Homeworld Origin:
Forge World Skills: Forge world characters treat
Common Lore (Tech) and Common Lore (Machine Cult) as
untrained Basic Skills.
Fit for Purpose (Trait): Depending on the chosen Career
the forge world character increases one Characteristic by
+3: Adept—Intelligence; Assassin—Agility; Guardsman—
Ballistic Skill; Scum—Perception; Tech-Priest—Willpower.
Stranger to the Aquila (Trait): Forge world characters suffer
a –10 penalty on Tests involving knowledge of the Imperial
Creed, and a –5 penalty on Fellowship Tests to interact with
members of the Ecclesiarchy in formal settings.
Starting Wounds: These characters start with 1d5+7 Wounds.
Fate Points: Forge world characters roll 1d10 to determine
starting Fate Points: 1–5 means 1 Fate Point; 6–9 gives 2 Fate
Points; 10 grants 3 Fate Points..
Forges of the Lathes
In addition to the rules listed above, players must choose one
of the forge worlds within the Calixis Sector as their specific
Homeworld. As with selecting the forge world Origin,
Players should be sure that their specific Homeworld choice
is approved by the GM to avoid any potential conflicts.
Origin: Lathe-Hadd
A stifled world of endless procrastination, those who dwell within
the bureaucratic and technological quagmire of Lathe-Hadd tend
to either live a life of looking over their shoulder, or have simply
given up hope of ever seeing any progress in their lifetimes.
Characters originating from Lathe-Hadd start with either
the Paranoia or Jaded Talent.
Origin: Lathe-Hesh
As the premier forge world of the Calixis Sector, Lathe-Hesh
represents everything most Imperial citizens have come to
expect from a forge world.
Characters originating from Lathe-Hesh start with the
Technical Knock Talent.
Origin: Lathe-Het
Having lost the majority of its manufacturing capacity years ago,
Lathe-Het is now the data centre of the Lathe worlds, housing
untold amounts of knowledge in ancient decaying datacrypts
and cogitators that span the entire world. Those who originate
from Lathe-Het are usually quite adept at accessing information
quickly, and often have the means to do so.
Characters originating from Lathe-Het start with the Talent
Electro Graft Use and a Common-Quality Mind Impulse Unit.
They do not benefit from the Fit for Purpose Trait.
Origin: Belecane
Considered to be one of the more conventional forge worlds
within the Calixis Sector, those from Belecane have often have
more contact with the ancient and scarcely understood technology
of stasis weapons even most senior Tech-Priests elsewhere, as
well as other technological marvels unique to Belecane.
Characters originating from Belecane start with the Exotic
Weapon Training (Stasis Grenades) Talent as well as one other
Exotic Weapon Training Talent of their choice.
Origin: Cyclopea
Once a Tech-Priest known only as “The Fabricator” ruled in
apostasy over this forge world, which is in truth a series of
space stations known as the Cyclopean Network. Orbiting a
blighted world of misery and pain, the Network was entirely
staffed with Servitors during his eccentric reign, and it remains
a place for silent research. Tech-Priests from all across the
Calixis Sector come to learn what secrets its enigmatic ruler
left behind when he fled to a distant sector.
Characters originating from Cyclopea begin play with
training in the Forbidden Lore (Archeotech) Skill and the
Talent Binary Chatter.
Origin: Explorator Fleet
The Explorator fleets crisscross the galaxy in the never-ending
Quest for Knowledge. Each crewmember of each ship, from the
lowliest rating to the highest Magos, knows that it is his duty
to travel the stars and reclaim mankind’s lost heritage. There
are numerous Explorator fleets within the Calixis Sector, some
acting act as permanent defence fleets while others simply stop
by on their way to the Halo Stars and beyond. Those who
leave their fleet to start on a new path are a hardy and capable
people, ready for any challenge.
Characters originating from an Explorator Fleet gain the
Void Accustomed Trait listed on page 22 of the Dark Heresy
Core Rulebook as well as training in one of the following
Skills: Forbidden Lore (Archeotech), Inquiry, Navigation
(Stellar), or Scholastic Lore (Astromancy).
Origin: Idumea
Idumea is a minor forge world at the edge of the Calixis Sector
that has found itself caught in the tendrils of the Phaenonite
Conspiracy. The most brazen and unholy types of tech-heresy
bubble just beneath the surface of this choked and polluted
world, waiting for the moment when its rulers will rise up to
take their place as leaders of not just the Calixis Sector, but
perhaps the Imperium itself.
Those that hail from Idumea are unlikely to be part of the
conspiracy, but it is difficult to spend a significant amount of
time on the surface without at least coming into contact with
the servants of the Phaenonites. Characters originating from
Idumea start with either the Peer (Underworld) or Unremarkable
Talent. Additionally they treat Common Lore (Underworld),
Forbidden Lore (Cults) and Scholastic Lore (Occult) as
untrained Basic Skills. Imperial Psykers may also select this
forge world Homeworld as their Origin, but they must select
the Unremarkable Talent rather than Peer (Underworld).
Origin: Mechanicum Research Station
The Sector contains an endless variety of interesting nebulae,
oddly radiating stars, worlds with unusual fauna, and other
anomalies of interest to the Mechanicum, and they strive to
deploy research stations to study them all—an impossible
task, even with their vast resources. Some of these installations
are closely guarded secrets or havens for techno-recidivists,
whereas some are celebrated centres of knowledge or simply
forgotten altogether. Those that have spent their lives on such
a station usually pick up a myriad of skills that can make them
quite useful to many Calixian organisations.
The Lost Dataslate
5
The Lost Dataslate
6
Characters originating from a Mechanicum Research
Station begin play with training in one of the following Skills:
Common Lore, Forbidden Lore, Scholastic Lore, or Trade. They
also gain the Talented Talent for that specific Skill.
Origin: Omnicron 71-DX
Close to the Adrantis Nebula, Omnicron 71-DX has been used
as a research station for hundreds of years, and those who herald
from this small but important location are said to be more adept
at stargazing than other Tech-Priests in the Calixis Sector.
Characters originating from Omnicron 71-DX start
with training in the Pilot (Space Craft) and Scholastic Lore
(Astromancy) Skills.
Origin: Opus Macharius
Those from the homeworld of the Legio Venator are no
strangers to the deafening, ground-shattering footfalls of
Titans. Often stronger than those of other forge worlds, the
denizens of Opus Macharius are calm under fire—even if
they can be somewhat hard of hearing.
Characters originating from Opus Macharius start with the
Bulging Biceps and Nerves of Steel Talents, but reduce their
starting Perception by 5.
Origin: Perinetus
Being from the largest and most important ship-building and
repair facility in the Calixis Sector, the natives of Perinetus are
adept at operating extremely heavy machinery and weathering
the rigours of space travel.
Characters originating from Perinetus gain the Void
Accustomed Trait listed on page 22 of the Dark Heresy Core
Rulebook, and treat Trade (Armourer), Trade (Technomat)
and Trade (Wright) as untrained Basic Skills.
Origin: Ryboth
Only those that are truly blessed can flourish on the surface
of Ryboth. Still languishing in the aftereffects of the radiation
storm that brought the forge world to its knees two hundred
years ago, the remaining population ekes out a meagre existence
in the hope that one day their world might be restored.
Characters from Ryboth reduce their starting Strength and
Toughness by 3 and reduce their starting Wounds by 1, but
gain the Hardy and Resistance (Radiation) Talents, as well as
one additional Fate Point.
Origin: Skorgulian
A dark and desolate world dominated by Mechanicum mining
operations, the people of Skorgulian must not only learn to
live in the horrific conditions of the surface, but also how
to navigate the Byzantine political structure of the world.
Houses can rise and fall as quickly as the tides of its polluted
oceans, and those who do not adapt are quickly swept aside.
Characters originating from Skorgulian gain training in
the Scholastic Lore (Bureaucracy) Skill, the Resistance (Cold)
Talent, and treat Trade (Miner) and Trade (Prospector) as
untrained Basic Skills.
Origin: Synford
Synford is responsible for more Imperial Guard vehicles than any
other forge world in the Sector. From its production lines roll
Leman Russ Battle Tanks, Chimeras and many other patterns,
but the world is most famous for its dominating Baneblades. Still
able to produce them in significant numbers, and retaining the
technology to produce the Baneblade’s signature cannon shells,
Synford is a forge world the Imperium cannot afford to lose.
Characters from Synford gain training in the Common
Lore (Imperial Guard) and Drive (Ground Vehicle) Skills,
and treat Trade (Armourer), Trade (Technomat), and Trade
(Wright) as untrained Basic Skills.
Origin: Synford ii
Despite the similar name, Synford II is both nothing like and
nowhere near Synford. Sitting in the Malfian Sub-Sector, Synford
II is a shadow of its former self and a casualty of the Malygrisian
Tech-Heresy. Some form of seismic weapon was unleashed upon
the surface during the Tech-Heresy, removing most of Synford II’s
production capacity and destabilising the world’s surface so much
that mining its abundant resources is now almost impossible.
Those who hail from Synford II cling to the former glory
of their world, spending more time reminiscing about the
past than looking to the future. They gain training in the
Performer (Storyteller) Skill, the Total Recall Talent, and treat
Scholastic Lore (Archaic), Scholastic Lore (Heraldry), and
Scholastic Lore (Legend) as untrained Basic Skills.
More Forge World Information
Further background information on life within a
forge world, as well as additional weapons, equipment
and cybernetics can be found in The InquisITor’s
Handbook. These extra rules can add more depth to
any Dark Heresy campaign and are an invaluable
resource for GMs looking for further emphasise the
role of the Adeptus Mechanicus in their games.
Origin: Turanshush
The Adeptus Ministorum already had a sizable presence
on Turanshush when the world was ceded to the Adeptus
Mechanicus, but rather than starting a conflict with the fiery
priests of the Ecclesiarchy, the ruling Fabricator chose to leave
them alone. Since then, relations between the forge world and
the small enclave have always been strained, with the Mechanicus
keeping the small group isolated from the rest of the world
both figuratively and literally. The result has been a people of
furious religious conviction, either in the guise of worship to the
Machine God or worship to the God-Emperor of Mankind.
Characters originating from Turanshush do not start with the
Stranger to the Aquila Trait. In its place they gain the Insanely
Faithful Talent, as well training in one of the following pairs
of Skills: Common Lore (Machine Cult) and Common Lore
(Tech), or Common Lore (Ecclesiarchy) and Common Lore
(Imperial Creed). Characters who choose the Mechanicum-
based Skills always suffer a –20 penalty when interacting with
members of the Adeptus Ministorum, whilst characters that
choose the Ecclesiarchy-based skills always suffer a –20 penalty
when interacting with members of the Adeptus Mechanicus.
A Cleric can use this option to select a the forge world
Homeworld Origin, but if he does, he must choose Common
Lore (Ecclesiarchy) and Common Lore (Imperial Creed) when
selecting his trained Skills from this Origin above.
Origin: Uziel/Heterodyne Station
A feudal world where the Adeptus Mechanicus has successfully
integrated the Machine Cult with day-to-day activities, Uziel is
a world that mixes the primitive and the highly advanced. The
serfs and petty nobles know nothing of the Ecclesiarchy, as the
Magos of the Heterodyne Station have slowly but surely made
the Omnissiah the object of the populace’s worship.
Tech-Priests originating from Uziel/Heterodyne Station
start with the either the Rite of Awe or Rite of Fear Talent.
All other types of characters gain training in either the Trade
(Agri) or Trade (Smith) Skill. Further, instead of treating
Common Lore (Tech) as an untrained Basic Skill (as normal for
a forge world Homeworld Origin), they treat Forbidden Lore
(Adeptus Mechanicus) as an untrained Basic Skill instead.
LATHE-piLOT (NPC)
Specialist Lathesmasters with limited augmentation designed
to assist them in navigating their native system, Lathe-pilots
know every mote of dust floating within the Lathes, and
share a special connection with the strange phenomena that
plague its spaceways. The Excipio Stations and the enormous
shipping vessels that transport the products of the Lathes
around the Calixis Sector depend upon these natives to
successfully guide Greatholds and other ships through the
system and beyond. Highly prized for their ability to pilot
large craft through crowded lanes of traffic, some Lathe-pilots
have since been emigrated to various Lathe Worlds and other
Adeptus Mechanicus holdings.
Lathe-pilot
WS BS S T Per WP Fel
24 40 32 34 38 33 44 21 35
AgInt Movement: 3/6/9/18 Wounds: 8
Armour: None
Skills: Dodge (Ag), Navigation (Interplanetary, System
Specific) (Int) +20, Pilot (Spacecraft) (Ag) +20, Scholastic
Lore (Astrography) (Int) +10, Scrutiny (Per), Tech Use (Int).
Talents: Lightning Reflexes, Rapid Reaction, Total Recall.
Traits: Dark Sight.
Weapons: Laspistol (Pistol; 30m; S/–/–; 1d10+2 E; Pen 0;
Clip 30; Reliable).
Gear: Red Mechanicus robes (Good-Quality Clothing),
Rudimentary MIU, void-suit with helmet.
Rudimentary MIU: The Mind Impulse Units provided to
Lathe-Pilots are only of the simplest, most basic design.
They are only capable of interfacing with their designated
vessel’s machine spirit.
Native Guide: Lathe-pilots specialise in navigating through
their home systems, or any system for which they have
been prepared. They gain a +20 bonus to all Navigation
(Space) Tests while guiding their vessel through familiar
areas. Furthermore, the Lathe-pilot adds an additional two
Degrees of Success to any successful Navigation (Space Test)
and ignores the Hazards of Navigation special rule when
navigating within the Lathes System.
The Lost Dataslate
7
The Lost Dataslate
Table 1-1: Techxorcism Weapons
Name Class Range RoF Dam Pen Clip Rld Special Wt Cost Availability
Techxorcism
Rifle Basic 80m S/–/4 1d10+4 E 4 40 Full Haywire (1),
Shocking 15kg 3500 Very Rare
Blast (4),
Techxorcism
Cannon Heavy 120m S/–/– 2d10+6 E 6 20 2 Full
Haywire (4),
40kg 5800 Very Rare
Shocking
8
Expanded
Mechanicum
Armoury
There are those who would call the Mechanicum’s reliance
on technology a weakness, and that the role the machine
plays for them is a crutch that only lesser men would
require. The Adeptus Mechanicus believes otherwise of course,
holding that only through metallic union with the machine
can man become more than mere flesh and become one with
the Omnissiah. The technological might and arcane devices
that the Cult of the Machine wields in combat perhaps are the
ultimate proof that their beliefs are correct, and certainly few
facing them in battle would argue otherwise as mole mortar
torpedoes erupt from the ground and Cataclysmus Devices
bathe wide areas in nuclear fury.
TecHXOrciSM WEAPOns
Utilising a unique form of energy specifically designed to
destroy technology and drive out machine-spirits, Techxorcism
weapons can render units of Servitors inoperable in a single
blast, or leave a Tech-Priest on the ground desperately
gasping for air as his implants all fail. Given the choice, the
Lathes would ban such weapons, but unfortunately for the
Mechanicus of Calixis there are other powerful organisations
within the Sector that consider these weapons vital tools in
the war against the enemies of Mankind. Legends say they
are a forbidden result of the Malygrisian Tech-Heresy. No
Calixian forge world makes these weapons, or if they do they
are unwilling to admit it, but examples of the weapons seem
to permeate the criminal underbelly of the entire Sector. There
are numerous examples of Techxorcism weaponry, but the most
common are a rapid fire rifle often used for suppressing fire
and a highly destructive cannon that can render entire squads
of enemy troops helpless in a single blast. The Agents of the
Lords Dragon are quick to respond to rumoured Techxorcism
weapon caches or heretical forges producing them, but even
their keen eyes cannot look everywhere at once.
To use a Techxorcism weapon, the character must have the
Exotic Weapon Training (Techxorcism) Talent.
Techxorcism Weapon Rules
When a Techxorcism weapon strikes a living target, it deals the
damage listed in its profile with the Shocking Quality. Living
targets struck by a Techxorcism weapon suffer an additional –20
penalty to Tests to resist the effects of its Shocking Quality.
Techxorcism ammunition is Very Rare, and costs 80
Thrones for every 10 shots. Both the Techxorcism Rifle and
the Techxorcism Cannon can be linked to a backpack ammo
supply; this doubles the weapon’s clip size and reload time.
WEAPOn EMPLAcEMEnTS
While most Mechanicum weaponry is man (or Servitor) portable,
some armaments are designed more for stationary operation.
Once firmly set into the ground, such weapon emplacements
can rain devastating fire upon the foes of the Machine God.
Hadd-Pattern Mole Mortar
The Hadd-Pattern Mole Mortar launches specialist
burrowing torpedoes that detonate under or just above
the surface. The torpedoes can plough through almost
any material, and the Tech-Priests of Aurora Novos have
rediscovered a number of different munition types to
enhance the tactical flexibility of this peculiar weapon.
Hadd-Pattern Thudd Gun
Spurred on by the reintroduction of the Het-Pattern Rapier,
a small sect of Lathe-Hadd Tech-Priests calling themselves
Aurora Novos began researching and manufacturing other
ancient Crusade-era artillery emplacements in the hope that it
would inspire the restoration of their falling forge world. The
Hadd-Pattern Thudd Gun was the first of these designs, and was
quite a strange one at that. Many siege regiments throughout
the Imperium utilise the Thudd Gun, or Quad Launcher as
it is more commonly called, but most use the Lucius-pattern:
a basic breach-loading weapon that must be towed from
battlefield to battlefield. More sophisticated and with its own
remote-controlled motive system, the Hadd-pattern features
four squat gravity-fed magazines, allowing the weapon to fire
continuously for up to a minute before reloading. How long
the Tech-Priests of Aurora Novos can continue making this
weapon until their efforts are curtailed is unknown, but certain
Guard Commanders, Rogue Traders, and even a few Inquisitors
have taken an interest in the revival of this long-dead design.
As this Thudd Gun consists of four linked mortars that fire as
a salvo, the weapon is always fired using the Indirect Fire Action.
Each individual clip for a Thudd Gun holds 5 shells.
Table 1-2: Weapon Emplacements
Name Class Range RoF Dam Pen Clip Rld Special Wt Cost Availability
Mole Mortar Heavy 50-
200m S/–/– † † 1 Full †, Indirect 60kg 8000 Very Rare
Thudd Gun Heavy 50-
500m –/–/4 1d10+8 X 4 20 2 Full Blast (3),
Indirect 130kg 12000 Very Rare
†The Mole Mortar torpedo type being used determines Range, Damage, Penetration, and additional Special Rules.
GrenADES and TorPEDOES
The mysteries of the Machine God are readily apparent in the
wondrous devices his servants use for his glory. This is especially
true for those rare creations that can shine dazzling light on those
who would hide from his gaze, or even stop them in time so they
can be dispatched before they are aware of their fate.
Belecane-Pattern Stasis Grenade
Produced in very small quantities on the Calixian forge world of
Belecane, stasis grenades trap (or preserve) those caught in the
blast within a bubble of slowed time. For those within the stasis
field, everything around them appears to move at a blisteringly
fast pace, and for those outside those within the field appear as
if they are not moving at all, so slow are their movements. Stasis
Grenades use up their power quite quickly, so the field collapses
within moments, but they are excellent tools for capturing
important prey or disrupting pursuers during a hasty retreat.
Stasis Grenades have a radius of 2 metres, and anything
within this radius is held in time, unable to take any Actions
for 1d5 Rounds. Those outside cannot attack or interact with
anyone within the stasis field’s radius. Stasis grenades are
considered Exotic Weapons, and a character must have the
appropriate Talent before he can use them effectively.
Belecane-Pattern Stasis Mines
An excellent defensive measure for those able to afford them,
the Stasis Mines of forge world Belecane make fantastic alarm
systems. Far larger than a Stasis Grenade, the power systems
within the Stasis Mine can hold their victims for almost an
hour, and can even be recharged and reused.
Stasis Mines have a variable detection radius of up to 5
metres and can be set to detect creatures of a specific size
(e.g., it can be set to detect Size (Hulking) and above, but
ignore smaller-sized creatures). Once they detect the preset
target they activate automatically, interrupting the Actions of
whatever character triggered the mine. The radius for a Stasis
Mine is 6 metres, and anything within this radius is trapped
and unable to take any Actions for 3d10 minutes. Those
outside cannot attack or interact with anyone within the
stasis field’s radius. Good-Craftsmanship Stasis Mines come
with a remote detonator that allows the user to activate and
deactivate the stasis field at will. Once used, a stasis field can
be recharged with a Difficult (–10) Tech-Use Test. Three
or more Degrees of Failure means that the field generator
has burnt out and the mine is now useless. Stasis Mines are
considered Exotic Weapons, and an Acolyte must have the
appropriate Talent before he is able to use them effectively.
Table 1-3: Grenades and Torpedoes
Name Class Range RoF Dam Pen Special Wt Cost Availability
Cataclysmus
Device Thrown SBx3 S/–/– 4d10+20 X 12 Blast (12), † 1kg 1000 Near Unqiue
Stasis
Grenade Thrown SBx3 S/–/– † † Indirect, † 0.5kg 8000 Very Rare
Stasis Mine — — — † † Blast (6), † 20kg 19000 Very Rare
Airburst
— — — 1d10+2 X 0 Blast (8), Tearing, † 3kg 200 Rare
Torpedo
EMP
— — — — Haywire (6) 5kg 1150 Very Rare
Torpedo
Incendiary
— — — 2d10 E 0 Blast (4), † 3kg 300 Very Rare
Torpedo
Standard
— — — 1d10+12 I 4 Blast (2), † 3kg 150 Rare
Torpedo
†See item entry for special rules.
The Lost Dataslate
9
The Lost Dataslate
10
Cataclysmus Device
Cast from the surface of Lathe-Hadd for being “insufficiently
respectful of the past”, a small sub-cult of the Mechanicus
fled from the Lathe Worlds to continue their dangerous
experiments elsewhere. Rumours that they ran to the dark
world of Lacuna remain unconfirmed, but what is known is
that they succeeded in reviving a piece of technology long
dismissed by the Adeptus Mechanicus as too wasteful and
inefficient, namely the ancient and widely-proscribed method
of heavy material micro-fission. However unlike capital-class
devices of similar design this sect sought to create a hand-
held device that could be used in close-ranged fire fights.
Anyone caught within the blast radius of a Cataclysmus
Device must take a Very Hard (–30) Strength Test or be
knocked prone. Any character that survives the blast from a
Cataclysmus Device must make a Difficult (–10) Toughness
Test, and suffer one point of permanent Toughness Damage
for every Degree of Failure. Affected characters must repeat
this Test every hour until they receive anti-radiation treatment.
Cataclysmus Devices detonate too easily to be fired from
grenade launchers, and can only be thrown.
Mole Mortar Torpedoes
Each Round, the Mole Mortar operator can change the type
of torpedo. Due to the scarcity of both the launcher and its
ammunition, each round is purchased individually. As they
hit without warning from underground, Dodge Tests against
torpedo hits are made with a –30 Penalty on top of any other
modifiers.
Standard Torpedo
This high explosive charge detonates moments before reaching
the surface, sending a concentrated blast directly upwards.
Anyone hit by a standard torpedo must take a Difficult
(–10) Strength Test or be knocked prone. The blast area is
considered difficult ground from that point onwards.
Airburst Torpedo
Timed to explode a fraction of a second after vaulting from
the earth, airburst torpedoes send razor-sharp shrapnel in all
directions. Airburst torpedoes reduce any Armour Points the
target is receiving from cover by half, rounding up.
Incendiary Torpedo
Like airburst torpedoes, incendiary torpedoes explode just
after leaving the ground. However, rather than shrapnel,
they instead unleash a splash of promethium in all directions.
Anyone hit by an incendiary torpedo must make a Difficult
(–10) Agility Test or be set on fire.
EMP Torpedo
Activating the moment they reach the surface, EMP torpedoes
do not directly damage their targets but instead send wave
upon wave of electromagnetic radiation in all directions until
the torpedo’s small generator burns out.
GEAr and CyBErnETics
The most priceless devices are those relics from the Dark Age
of Technology, days of legend which can never be regained.
There are few higher honours a Tech-Priest can have than
to be entrusted with one of these holy mechanisms.
Cameleoline Grid
The name Cameleoline Grid is actually a way of referring to
a series of similar devices that have been located in ancient
storage reliquaries and tech-vaults across the Calixis Sector.
No two Cameleoline Grids are alike, and they vary in size
from several metres to several hundred metres across. Their
common features are flexible interlocking screens that are
held up by strong tungsten rods. The rods are sometimes
up to six metres high, and the screens themselves vary in
colour from a deep green to pitch black, but this changes
once an electrical current is run across their surface. Almost
instantaneously, the screens change colour to match their
surroundings, effectively hiding everything underneath
them, much like cameleoline material. It is not understood
how these screens achieve this effect, and repairing the
individual screens has proven to be impossible, but those
lucky enough to possess even a small Cameleoline Grid
have a decisive advantage when it comes to spying or
hiding objects from prying eyes.
Cameleoline Grids vary in size, and it is up to the GM to
determine how much of an area the grid covers. Cameleoline
Grids do not require much expertise to use, and setting one
up is similar to setting up a large tent or tarpaulin. Almost
any power source can be used to activate a Cameleoline
Grid—all the device requires is a steady electrical current.
Those under a Cameleoline Grid are effectively invisible,
granting a +50 bonus to any Concealment Tests made
when hiding under the grid. The grid itself provides no
cover, and each panel—usually no more than two metres
across—cannot be repaired if damaged.
Cranial Armour
Inserted just beneath the skin, Cranial Armour adds an
extra level of protection that could be the difference
between life and death. Cranial Armour adds +1 to any
armour on the head, stacking with other types of armour
as well as Talents that provide Armour Points (such as
The Flesh is Weak). Poor-Quality Cranial Armour is crude
and obvious, permanently reducing the user’s Fellowship
by 1d10. Good-Craftsmanship Cranial Armour adds an
additional +1 (for a total of +2)Armour to the head.
Dark Mask
Throughout the Calixian underworld there is a rare
substance commonly referred to as Dark Mask or Lacuna
dust, although it is not known if Lacuna is its true world of
origin. Said to be a darker than the void itself, the substance
can be used to cover a surface, or even a person, rendering
him all but invisible in low-light situations. Even active
scanners have difficulty locating items coated in Dark Mask.
Dark Mask can be applied to anything, including weapons,
clothing, and bare skin. When hiding in shadow or during
low-light situations, Dark Mask gives a +60 bonus to
Concealment Tests. Characters using scanning equipment,
such as auspexes, can only locate someone or something
covered in Dark Mask if they pass a Very Hard (–30)
Tech-Use Test when using the device. A single canister of
Dark Mask contains enough dust to cover a single standard-
sized human (plus clothing and basic equipment).
Luma-Crete
While most within the Mechanicus look to replace weak flesh
with strong machinery, there are those that have found ways of
chemically bolstering skin and muscle to make it as hard and
resilient as any cybernetic implant. Known as Luma-Crete,
the substance is injected into various points of the body, and
for a short time, it bolsters exposed flesh, turning it a glowing
dullish grey that resists the extremes of temperature and even
hard vacuum. Once injected with Luma-Crete, a character
gains The Flesh is Weak Trait equal to half of his Toughness
Bonus (rounding up). He also gains the Resistance (Heat)
Trait, and a +10 bonus to any Tests made to resist the effects
of radiation. This effects last for 1d5 hours, and once it wears
off the character gains 1d5 levels of Fatigue.
Synthmuscle Graft
This dense vat-grown muscle tissue is augmented with
flakweave and once implanted into existing muscle tissue
increases the user’s strength substantially. Users gain a +1
to their Strength Bonus for a normal implantation. Good-
Craftsmanship grafts grant the Unnatural Strength (x2) Trait,
but also impose a –10 penalty to any Agility Tests the user
attempts to make due to the misshapen nature of his body.
Table 1-4: Gear and Cybernetics
Name Weight Cost Availability
Cameleoline
Grid Varies † †
Cranial
Armour
— 600 Rare
Dark Mask — 450 Very Rare
Luma-Crete — 600 Very Rare
Synthmuscle
Graft
— 2000 Very Rare
Voidbane
Generator 20kg † †
†Item uses Archeotech special rules for Cost and Availability.
Voidbane Generator
Officially listed as the Hades-Pattern Rotating Gravimetric
Harmonic Disruption Device, a Voidbane Generator is
a lethal weapon of sabotage and terror. Rediscovered
during the dark days of the Malygrisian Heresy, Voidbane
Generators use gravimetric and soundwave transmissions to
disrupt and eventually overload a voidship’s Gellar Field,
spilling the raw stuff of the Warp into the ship. Worse, each
generator can shut down a Gellar Field from almost anywhere
inside the craft, and the devices are easily hidden. Far too
destructive to leave in the wrong hands, the generators were
all but banned by the end of the Malygrisian Heresy. Now,
only the Inquisition can authorise their use, but even they
are unsure of just how many generators were created or how
many have spread throughout the Calixis Sector.
Voidbane Generators can be set to activate the moment
a voidship enters the Warp and take around an hour to
achieve full power once active. The larger the ship, the
more likely they are to detect the disruptions to their Gellar
Field before it is too late, but once active the generator
must be destroyed before it completes its task and the
ship becomes vulnerable to the fury of the Warp. Tracking
down a Voidbane Generator is quite difficult, requiring
an auspex and a Very Hard (–30) Tech-Use Test taken
every five minutes as the generator constantly switches
frequencies. Voidbane Generators make for excellent
narrative devices, either as something the Acolytes must
find and stop, or as a piece of assigned wargear to use
against the enemies of more radical Inquisitors.
The Lost Dataslate
11
The Lost Dataslate
12
ALTAr-TEMPLUM-
cALixis-EST-3
“That station? Just another cogboy den. Emperor knows that they
do out here in Ruby’s Clouds; everyone knows the real action is
on the other side of the Maw.”
–Rogue Trader Karlotinna Gint
Beyond the fringes of the Drusus Marches lies an
unremarkable pair of stars, the larger of which,
Rubycon II, hosts a small series of ordinary planets.
Nothing within the system itself would make it stand out from
the innumerable thousands of others across the Calixis Sector,
except for its proximity to one of the most important natural
phenomena in the region: the Koronus Passage, also known as
the Maw. This unnaturally stable access way offers relatively safe
travel through devastating Warp storms into a vast, uncharted
region known as the Koronus Expanse. Because of this passage,
the system has grown from a backwater monitoring post to
a vital hub of commerce and combat. Organisations across
the Sector struggle for dominance over Port Wander itself,
knowing it is the key to controlling the Maw. The Mechanicum
are amongst them, though its interests focus in other areas than
mere trade. For while others concentrate on using the Passage
to gain access to new territories and new profit sources, the
Cult Mechanicus is more interested in secrets of the Maw itself
and what it has wrought on neighbouring space. For this, it has
stations throughout the system, the most important being on
the frozen planet of Skiri orbiting far on the edges of Rubycon
II’s dim red light. Here lies the Adeptus Mechanicus research
station of Altar-Templum-Calixis-Est-3, quietly watching the
Maw and everything that passes through it.
The Mechanicum of Rubycon ii
Unlike many of the other agencies within the Sector, the Machine
Cult already had a foothold within the system when the Koronus
Passage was revealed. Its presence on Port Wander allowed for a
firm base of operations, as well as a solid foundation to weather
the many conflicts over the Port’s authority and ownership. Few
realised its interests predominantly lay on the extreme far edges
of Rubycon, it only becoming clear when the other major powers
within the system simultaneously and independently ceded any
claims they had on an entire world to the Mechanicum. It had
taken an entire cohort of Factors working for long months, each
Factor targeting a different authority with tactical diplomacy, but
all working together to multiply their gains until the prize was
achieved: the planet on the farthest edge of Rubycon II, Skiri.
Even though it raised some eyebrows, few still considered
this much of a triumph. The world was little more than rock
and ice, barely a mention in Rogue Trader Vivaldi Jontur’s
original survey of the system. Like most objects within the
system, it had no valuable ores or other wealth to exploit. Its
orbit is so far removed from the Port and normal intra-system
routes that most barely remember its existence. So, for the
most part, the principalities of Port Wander ignored things
as the Mechanicus developed the planet and its surroundings
with a research station and network of auspex sensoria.
The Lost Planet
The Mechanicum targeted this world not for what it is, but
for where it is. Early in their investigations into the Koronus
Passage, they detected vast amounts of void-strewn flotsam
and jetsam near the Maw. Most seemed to move towards
Rubycon II, drawn towards the closest gravity well. Amidst
the Imperial detritus were many fragments of xenos vessels,
as well as many ships that were clearly of Mankind but not
of the Imperium. These discoveries, as well as the mysterious
nature of the Passage itself, were avenues of research much
more likely to lead to knowledge than continued squabbling
on the Port. The Mechanicus could carry on such research far
out in the void, away from prying eyes. Skiri was ideal, and
soon became the major hub for hidden operations within
the system. The Machine Cult continued its presence within
the Port, and indeed maintains this location as the major
Explorator fleet nexus for travel into the Expanse. Shrouded
in the outer darkness on Skiri and elsewhere in the cometary
clouds, more secretive investigation takes place.
Station Altar-Templum-Calixis-Est-3 dominates the world
with many kilometres of augury arrays, enough to guide entire
fleets across the void. Here, the Mechanicum watches the
Passage, seeking any signs of instability or fluctuations which
might aid or harm vessels travelling through it. They also scan
for debris exiting the Maw, sending out tiny retrieval vessels to
acquire anything of interest. A carefully hidden secret is that
Skiri itself contains such relics, most buried under tonnes of
frozen atmosphere. Ancient tunnelling machines, once used for
war, burrow across the planet searching for such treasures.
Port Wander and the
Koronus Expanse
Port Wander itself and the nearby Passage connecting
the Calixis Sector to the lawless environs of the Koronus
Expanse make for exciting settings for Dark Heresy
adventures. For those GMs interested in delving deeper
into these areas, the Rogue Trader Core Rulebook as
well as its supplement Into the Storm are both ideal
sources for more information on the infamous void
station and the rest of the Rubycon II system.
These xenos remains and archeotech treasures fill huge
vaults underneath the frozen surface, and much more has
made its way back to the Lathes for further study. Those
items deemed of lesser value make their way to Port Wander,
where a grey faction of Malateks are allowed to operate a
Cold Trade establishment using these finds, all removed from
any official Mechanicus involvement. That these apostates,
trading in only the leftover scraps of the Maw’s offerings, are
slowing becoming a major player in the Calixis Cold Trade,
threatening the hegemony of the Quintet who control the
trade, indicates the true wealth of these finds.
Mysteries in the Clouds
The station is just one of many in the area. Footfall, the
dark reflection of Port Wander within the Expanse, hosts
station Altar-Templum-Calixis-Est-17 to monitor the other
side of the Koronus Passage. Their names suggest many
more stations, but all attempts to gather more information
have been met with silence. Most assume they are scattered
elsewhere in the cometary cloud or even on the Port itself,
hidden in its labyrinthian depths. Few know the truth:
most have been destroyed through means unknown, and
the Mechanicus grows concerned that one day Est-3 might
meet a similar fate. Something else is out there in the dark
reaches of Ruby’s Clouds, and it appears hungry.
Cryon Tech-Priest
Tech-Priests operating on Skiri and some of the outer comets
have tuned and layered their augmentations to withstand the
intense cold, becoming as one with their surroundings. These
Cryon Tech-Priests are now so accustomed to these temperatures
that few can exist outside of them, their cybernetics unable to
function in anything but the bitterest of cold.
Cryons stride the frozen wastelands of Skiri with ease,
ignoring the unimaginable cold. Their systems do not require
normal amounts of oxygen, so few carry large breathing tanks,
preferring instead to simply scoop up the frozen gas and ladle
it into consumption hoppers. The Lathes have adopted this
augmentation-pattern for other regions, and it is now a not
uncommon site to witness these outwardly unprotected Tech-
Priests wading through frozen methane slurries or sliding
across sheets of iced nitrogen. On Skiri, though, they serve
to monitor the Passage, and it is likely that should anything
threatening the Calixis Sector emerge, they will see it first.
Cryon Tech-Priest
WS BS S T AgInt Per WP Fel
(8)
24 31 36 46 31 48 42 44 25
Movement: 3/6/9/18 Wounds: 15
Skills: Awareness (Per) +20, Common Lore (Machine Cult,
Tech) (Int) +10, Dodge (Ag), Forbidden Lore (Archeotech,
Xenos Tech) (Int) +10, Intimidate (S), Literacy (Int), Logic
(Int) +10, Search (Per) +10, Secret Tongue (Tech) (Int), Speak
Language (Low Gothic) (Int), Tech-Use (Int) +10.
Talents: At One with the Ice†, Binary Chatter, Chem Geld,
Luminern Charge, Mechadendrite Use, Strong Minded, Technical
Knock, The Flesh is Weak (3), Unnatural Toughness (x2).
†At One with the Ice: Cryons are immune to any degree
of cold, and benefit from the Resistance (Cold) Talent no
matter the temperature. If in a warmer environment (such
that an unprotected human would be comfortable), they
must pass a Difficult (−10) Toughness Test every other
Round or gains one level of Fatigue.
Armour: Cybernetic Augmentations (3 All).
Weapons: Harpoon Needler (Pistol; 30m; S/2/–; 1d10+2
R; Pen 3; Clip 6; Reload Full; Reliable, Toxic), Skirian Ice-
Axe (Melee; 2d5+8 E; Pen 8; Power Field, Unwieldy).
Gear: Cerebral Plugs, Data-Slate, MIU, Personal Auspex,
Lathes Mechadendrite Stabiliser, Utility Mechadendrite.
Adventure Seeds
•
Acolytes already on Port Wander hear of a
Mechanicus system ship that mysteriously exploded on
its way into one of the nearby dockyard asteroids. The
Machine Cult has not called for inquiry or reprisals
for what appears to be sabotage or attack. Where
was the ship coming from and what was it carrying?
And why do the Port’s senior Tech-Priests seem to be
more interested in quieting any investigations than
determining the party responsible?
•
As the Acolytes make their way outside of the
Rubycon II system and prepare to enter the Warp, a huge
object strikes their ship and brings them to a halt. They
investigate the impact, finding a shard of some other,
inhuman vessel. Their studies though come to a halt as
the Cult Mechanicus arrives, demanding the iridescent
remains for their own. Their tone suggests they might
not desire any other witnesses to the discovery .
•
The Acolytes are sent to track down a new source
of illicit xenos tech, and trace its flow back to Port
Wander. Here they find evidence that important power
factions on the station are supporting this illegal trade,
including some Mechanicum sects. Other notable
persons seem to be offering cryptic hints that may help
the Acolytes in their investigations, or might bring
them too much attention for their continued health.
The Lost Dataslate
13