40k campaign project
This project is for campaign notes, planning and keeping track of the plauers shennanigans for a dark heresy 1e campaign.
Insect-Themed Character Concept for Dark Heresy
50% of knowledge capacity used
5,677 lines
2,481 lines
text
119.48 KB •2,481 lines
Chapter VII:
Tests
TestS
Playing the
Chapte VII: Playing the Game
“There is nothing to fear but failure.”
— Warmaster Slaydo.
Game
“You have been chosen to serve the God-Emperor of Mankind
A
As your Acolyte undertakes adventures, explores strange
environments and exposes villainy, he will engage in all
manner of actions. Shooting a lasgun, scaling a cliff wall,
avoiding the power sword of a heretic: these are just a sample of the
with your very lives! But before you are even worthy to honour
typical sorts of things your character might face in his service to an
Him with your demise there are some things you need to know...”
Inquisitor. While it might be sufficient to say that you can or cannot
— Inquisitor Saffena Sengir, Ordo Xenos.
achieve these things, Dark Heresy uses a system for resolving the
I
In the service of the Holy Inquisition, Acolytes are called
upon to perform all manner of tasks, such as rooting out
heretics, travelling through the warp and combating the
many foes of mankind. To achieve these things, characters
need to draw upon all their skills and abilities. Having created
your character, this chapter explores all the different sorts of
things your Acolyte might have to do in the service of the
God-Emperor.
challenges that characters must overcome during game play.
The basic way of determining success or failure is determined
by what is called a “Test”. Whenever the action, task or effort
could have dramatic consequences—things that affect the
story, your character’s health and so on—you must take a
Test. To do so make a percentile dice roll. See Reading and
Rolling the Dice on page 9 for more information on how
to do this. Now compare the result rolled to the Characteristic
that best describes the action you’re attempting. If you roll
lower than or equal to the Characteristic, you succeed. If you
roll higher than the Characteristic, you fail.
If the d100 roll is greater than the Characteristic, you fail.
If the d100 roll is equal to or less than the Characteristic,
you succeed.
Skill Tests
SKILL TESTS
The most common sorts of Tests you have to take during play are
Skill Tests. Every skill (see Chapter III: Skills) is governed by a
particular Characteristic. For example, the Agility Characteristic
governs the Dodge skill. Whenever you would use a Skill—again,
for any Action with dramatic consequences—you make a Skill
Test, making a percentile dice roll as described above.
Example
Drake, a Veteran Guardsman with Agility 34, fights a hive ganger.
The unwashed hive scum makes a successful attack with his lead
pipe. Drake has the Dodge skill, so he tries to get out of the way.
Drake’s player makes a Dodge Test, rolling 42 on his percentile
dice. Since this is over Drake’s Agility characteristic, the ill-fated
Guardsman fails and the ganger’s weapon strikes home.
You can sometimes make Skill Tests even when you do not
actually have the Skill. You can only make Skill Tests with
Skills you do not have if the Skill is a Basic Skill. Advanced
Skills require specialised training and experience. If you don’t
have the Advanced Skill, you can’t make the attempt.
When making a Skill Test with a Basic Skill you do not
have, roll as normal, but halve the Characteristic (round up).
Many Talents (see Chapter IV: Talents) can improve
your chances of success, as can Skill Mastery (see page
18296). Talented, for example, provides a +10 bonus on Skill
Tests made with any one Skill.
Example
Nursing a nasty lump on his head, Drake tries to bargain down
the price of a medi-kit from a local hive merchant. He doesn’t
have the Barter skill, but Barter is a Basic Skill so he can
give it a try anyway. Drake has a Fellowship 34, but he must
halve it because he doesn’t have the skill. He must roll below or
equal to 17 (34/2=17) to successfully haggle the price down.
Drake rolls a 15—a success! He has managed to convince the
merchant to lower the price.
Characteristic Tests
CHARACTERISTIC TESTS
Sometimes you may want to do something that is not covered
by a Skill (using brute force to knock down a door, for example).
In these cases, you make a Characteristic Test instead of a Skill
Test. The GM determines the most appropriate Characteristic
for what you’re trying to do. Then roll a percentile dice and
compare the roll to the Characteristic. As with Skill Tests, if
the roll is equal to or less than the Characteristic you succeed;
if the roll is greater than the Characteristic you fail.
Example
Kiera, a Death Cult Assassin, runs across a narrow gantry high
above a space port in the driving rain. The gantry is very narrow
and extremely slippery, but with the Crimson Alliance in pursuit,
Kiera is not going to slacken her pace. The GM calls for an Agility
Test. Kiera’s Agility is 37. She rolls the dice and gets a 26, enough
to safely cross the gantry, leaving her enemies behind.
Table 7-1: Characteristics Tests
Characteristic Example Tests
Weapon Skill Make an attack with a melee weapon.
Ballistic Skill Make an attack with a ranged weapon.
Strength Bend bars, break down a door, push
Toughness Agility over a Grox.
Resist poison or disease, tolerate temperature
extremes, stave off hunger, resist mutation.
Determine Initiative, maintain balance on a
Intelligence Perception narrow surface, navigate treacherous terrain.
Recall an important detail, identify a familiar
face, solve a puzzle.
Notice a hidden enemy, locate a secret door,
Willpower Fellowship gauge another person’s attitude.
Resist a Psychic Power, torture or Fear.
Make a good impression, seduce a target, get
someone to do you a favour.
UsINg Characteristics
For everything not covered by Skills, you should always fall
back to Characteristic Tests. See Table 7–1: Characteristic
Tests for examples of typical Characteristics Tests.
Characteristic Bonuses
Except for Weapon Skill and Ballistic Skill, all Characteristics
have an associated bonus. The Characteristic Bonus is equal
to the tens digit of the Characteristic. For example, Jonas has
a 45 Toughness, so his Toughness Bonus is 4. Adriel has a 36
Perception, so her Perception Bonus is 3. Since these bonuses
are determined by the Characteristic, they may rise and fall
throughout the adventure. Should a Characteristic take a penalty,
that penalty likewise applies to the Characteristic Bonus.
Example
Drake, who’s Toughness is 45, is suffering from poisoning, and
therefore takes a –10 penalty to all Toughness Tests. This means
that his Toughness functions as if it is 35. Thus Drake’s Toughness
Bonus, for as long as he takes the penalty, is reduced to 3.
Using Characteristic Bonuses
Characteristic Bonuses are used in a number of ways. Usually
they are added to a dice roll to give a modified result. For
example, to ascertain the Damage inflicted by a successful
attack with a club, you roll 1d10 and add your Strength
Bonus (1d10+SB).
Table 7–2: Characteristic Bonuses
Characteristic Example Tests
Strength Bonus Used to determine Damage from melee
attacks.
Toughness Used to resist Damage taken in combat.
Agility Used to determine Initiative.
Intelligence Used with Skills, the Medicae skill for
example.
Perception Used with Skills, the Psyniscience skill
Willpower Fellowship for example.
Used with Focus Power to manifest
Psychic Powers.
Used when interacting with people.
“MankINd stands upon the brINk; on the one hand
lies a realm of uNImagINable power, on the other
awaits darkness, death and utter damnation.
Only those that follow the guidINg light of the
Emperor may save their souls.”
183Sometimes you will be asked to add or subtract a number from a
Characteristic Bonus before you apply it to a result. For example, to
ascertain the Damage inflicted by a successful hammer attack, you
roll 1d10 and add your Strength Bonus minus one (1d10+SB-1).
In addition, Characteristic Bonuses can be used to break
ties—see Opposed Skill Tests for more details.
parties make Skill Tests as normal. Whoever succeeds on the
Test wins. If both participants succeed, the one with the most
degrees of success wins. If the degrees of success are the same,
the higher Characteristic Bonus wins out. And if this still
results in a tie, then the lowest dice roll wins.
Should both parties fail, one of two things occurs. Either
there is a stalemate and nothing happens or both parties
should re-roll until there is a clear winner.
DEGREES OF SUCCESS
Deg rees of Success and Failure
AND FAILURE
Example
For most tests, it is enough to know whether you succeeded
Having eluded the Crimson Alliance on the gantry, Kiera is now
or failed. Sometimes, however, it is useful to know how well
trying to sneak out of the space port and past one of their sentries.
you succeeded, or how badly you failed. This is particularly
The GM calls for a Silent Move Test and opposes it with the sentry’s
important with social skills like Charm and Inquiry, as it gives
Perception Test. Both the player and the GM roll. Kiera must roll
the GM a guideline to help determine Non-Player Character
below 37 and the sentry must roll below 30. Kiera rolls a 24 for a
(NPC) attitudes and to portion out the information attained.
Measuring degrees of success and failure is straightforward.
success, while the GM gets a 28, also a success. Kiera beat her number
Compare the result of your Test with your score. For each
by 13 while the sentry beat his only by 2. As Kiera has the greater
full 10 points by which you exceed your Characteristic, you
degree of success, she manages to slip past and off into the night.
achieve one degree of success. Conversely, for each full 10
points by which you fail, you gain one degree of failure. Your
GM will let you know if degrees of success or failure are
important for a particular Test.
Example
Father Horst is boasting, none too truthfully, of his success in
smiting mutants. He makes a Deceive Test. Since Deceive is
a Fellowship-based skill, Father Horst must roll beneath his
Fellowship Characteristic to successfully convince the drill-abbots
that his actions were indeed “like the Imperial heroes of old”. Horst
rolls 12 against a Fellowship of 44. Not only does he succeed, he
beats his target by 3 degrees of success (44–12 = 32). The Drill-
Abbots completely believe his tale and decide that, as Horst is such
a hero, he is best employed at the front line of a local war.
The Role of
THE ROLE OF
Circumstan ce
CIRCUMSTANCE
Not all Skill Tests are equal. Climbing a fence is quite easy,
for instance, but ascending the face of a sheer cliff is quite
difficult. The GM assigns bonuses or penalties to Skill or
Characteristic Tests depending on the circumstances. While
published adventures define these modifiers for the GM, there
are many instances where the GM has to determine them on
the wing. Making judgements like this is a big part of being
a Game Master.
For each Test, the GM should decide the Difficulty and
then consult Table 7–3: Test Difficulty to determine the
appropriate modifier. GMs may choose to assign even greater
bonuses or penalties than those shown on the table, but such
modifiers should only be used in extremely unusual situations.
It is recommended that all modifiers be given out in 10-point
increments to keep the numbers simple. GMs who prefer more
finesse, however, may hand out modifiers in 5-point increments.
Exte nded Tests
EXTENDED TESTS
Some tasks are quite complicated and may take extra time to
finish. In these cases, the GM may decide that it takes more
than one successful Skill Test to complete the task. This is
known as an Extended Test. Generally, the Skill in question
will describe whether it requires an Extended Test, though the
GM may adjust the time represented by each Test depending
on what is in fact being attempted.
Opposed SkillTests
OPPOSED SKILL TESTS
Sometimes you have to Test your Skill against that of an
opponent. This is known as an Opposed Skill Test. If you
were trying to hide from a searching Guardsman, for example,
you would make a Concealment Test, while the Guardsman
would make an Awareness Test. In these situations, both
Example
Vos, a Feral warrior, tries to find the tracks of an unruly Grox he is
hunting. He makes a Tracking Test. Under normal circumstances, he’d
simply use his Intelligence Characteristic as his base chance of success.
However, the GM decides that the rain last night washed away most of the
tracks. He deems the task Very Hard and imposes a –30 penalty on Vos’s
Skill Test. His Intelligence is 41, with the penalty, he has to roll under an
11 (41–30=11) to succeed. Vos rolls a 35, which would have been a
success under normal circumstances, but in this instance the rain foiled him
and the test is failed. To make matters worse, Vos failed the Test by more
than 20, so the GM rules that he becomes lost for 1d5 hours.
184Assisstance
ASSISTANCE
In some situations, multiple characters working together have a
better chance of completing the task than if a character attempts
it alone. With the GM’s permission, a character can assist another
character that’s taking a Test. When doing so, the character with
the best chance to succeed rolls the dice. Each character assisting
reduces the Difficulty by one step. If the Test succeeds, the
character who rolled the dice gains an extra degree of success.
Table 7-3: Test Difficulty
Difficulty Test Modifier
Easy +30
Routine +20
Ordinary +10
Challenging +0
Difficult –10
Hard –20
Very Hard –30
Limits on Assistance
Characters can assist each other in most tasks but there are limits:
•
To assist, both characters must have the Skill being Tested.
•
The assisting character must be adjacent to the character
taking the Test.
•
You cannot assist on Reactions or Free Actions.
•
You may not assist on Tests made to resist disease, poison, Fear,
hazards or anything else the GM deems inappropriate.
•
No more than two characters may attempt to assist another.
Using Fate Points
USING FATE POINTS
Fate Points allow you to turn luck to your advantage, hitting
with that bolter shot when you would have otherwise missed,
or cracking the security code on a door just in time to make
a hasty escape. Using these twists of fate, you can take a few
more risks, which makes the game faster and far more exciting
than would otherwise be the case.
That said, you have a limited pool of Fate Points and
whenever you spend a Fate Point, you reduce your pool by
one, so choose wisely. Fate Points are restored at the start
of the next gaming session. Spending a Fate Point allows a
character to do one of the following things:
•
Re-roll any one failed Test. The results of the re-roll
are final.
•
Count as having rolled a 10 for their Initiative.
•
Add an extra degree of success to a Test.
•
Instantly recover 1d5 Wounds.
•
Recover from being Stunned.
Burning Fate
BURNING FATE
Sometimes a re-roll or an extra degree of success is not going
to be enough to save a character’s life. In these instances, the
character may choose to burn a Fate Point and permanently
reduce their Fate Points by 1. The result is that the character
survives whatever it was that would have killed him, but
only just. So for example, if the character was shot with a
lascannon and suffered a Critical Hit that would have killed
him, instead he will only be horribly wounded, hideously
burnt and rendered unconscious on 0 Wounds. In more
extreme circumstances, such as being trapped on a space ship
Example
during a warp drive implosion, it is up to the player and the
GM to work out just how the character makes his escape.
Hannah and Boris search a room. The GM declares that a Challenging
Note that you may burn a Fate Point even if you have
(+0) Search Test is required, so Boris decides to help Hannah rather
already used all of your Fate Points for that gaming session.
than search on his own. Since Boris is helping, the Difficulty drops to
This just means that at the start of the next session, when your
Ordinary (+10). If Hannah, who has the higher Perception, succeeds,
points are restored, you will have 1 less Fate Point.
she gains an extra degree of success because of Boris’s help.
Gaining Additional Fate Points
The Role
GAINING ADDITIONAL
THE ROLE
FATE POINTS
of Fate
OF FATE
Since Fate Points are an expendable resource, you may be reluctant
to burn them for fear of never gaining more. However, as your
character undertakes adventures, he may gain additional Fate
“There is no fate, but what the Emperor makes.”
Points to replenish those that have been burnt away. Your GM may
— Catechism of the Founding, Gunmetallicus 104th
.
grant Fate Points for particular acts of heroism, cunning or good
A
roleplaying. See Chapter VIII: The Game Master for details.
All Player Characters begin play with a number of Fate
Points. The number of Fate Points a character receives is
decided during character creation. Fate Points are what
separates Acolytes from the ordinary people of the Imperium. PCs
“The foolish man puts his trust IN luck, the WIse man
puts his trust IN the Emperor.”
have destinies and the Emperor has marked them for greater things.
While their ultimate fate is a mystery, with no guarantees that it will
be glorious, enriching or pleasant, they are a cut above the rest.
185INVESTIGATION
Investigation
“Wisdom is the beginning of fear.”
— Ordos Hereticus maxim.
A
Another key element of Dark Heresy games is, of course,
investigation. Over the course of an adventure, you are
likely to spend a fair amount of time pouring through
dusty libraries, searching through forbidden texts or chatting with
the locals to uncover the heresy you seek. Chapter III: Skills
offers a number of Investigation skills, such as Inquiry, Scholastic
Lore, Forbidden Lore and so on, to help you through this process.
Using Investigation
USING INVESTIGATION
SKILLS
Skills
In many cases, clues come as a result of achieving certain
objectives in the game. You might travel to another planet
to search through ancient xenos ruins, before heading on
to a hive-city to find someone who knows a bit about what
you found, only to head back to a shrine world to find the
corrupted priest who heads up a cult to the Dark Powers. All
of these instances can result from knowing where to look,
who to talk to, and where to go once you find the information
you seek. Sometimes, though, you may need to roll up your
sleeves and do some digging to discover the truth. Examples
of investigation could be to find out the background to a
forbidden planet, to learn more information about a xenos, or
to research a particularly famous figure in the history of the
Imperium. Luckily, all Investigation skills work the same way.
All Investigation tests require a character to have access to
an Investigation skill. The Difficulty of the Test depends on its
complexity, which also determines the base time it should take
to uncover the information sought. A success on the Test allows
you to roll 1d10 and add the appropriate Characteristic Bonus (as
determined by the Characteristic used for the Test) and subtract
this value in hours from the time it takes to uncover the information
sought. A failed Test indicates no progress gained. Failing by three
or more degrees indicates a setback, adding 1d10 hours to the
total time required by the Test. Failing by five or more degrees
means that your investigation comes to a complete halt and that
the information’s complexity increases by two steps. Once you
reduce the time to 0 or less, you get the available information on
the subject you’re investigating.
Table 7–4: Investigation Benchmarks offers a selection of
example Difficulties, times and Actions based on secrecy. As with
many other Tests, you may benefit from assistance from other Player
Characters subject to the same limitations described under Assistance
(see Assistance, page 184).
Investigation should never be used to replace roleplaying or
participating in adventures, but rather to augment roleplaying
and assist in arriving at the facts of a matter.
Combat
COMBAT
“Strike fast and suddenly. Attack without warning. Secure
victory before the foe is aware of his danger. Remember always,
a war is easily won if your enemy does not know he is fighting.”
M
— Tactica Imperialis.
Make no mistake: the Imperium is a dangerous place.
Over the course of their investigations, explorations
and travels, the characters are bound to encounter those
who would see them dead. Unless the characters plan to spend
their lives running away from their enemies, they will have to make
a stand and fight. As a result, combat can form a key component
in your Dark Heresy game. Being familiar with the ins and outs of
battle can only improve your chances of survival.
Rounds, Turns & Time
ROUNDS, TURNS & TIME
For most occasions whilst playing Dark Heresy, the GM
simply describes the scene or situation and asks the players
how they react. Time is flexible, and is subject to the GM’s
decision based on the choices the characters make. Whilst the
GM should have an idea about how much time approximately
passes, it’s not necessary to track the passage of time down to
the exact second, or even the minute or hour. It is enough to
say that “it takes about an hour to reach the spectral vestibule”
or “after about fifteen minutes of walking, you come upon a
crashed Aquila Lander”. This sort of approach is known as
“game time” or “Narrative Time”.
In contrast to the loose laws of Narrative Time, there are many
situations when every second counts and the GM must closely
monitor what is going on. It might be that the GM needs to
adjudicate a furious sword fight, or to track the characters’ pace as
they pursue fleeing cultists through the alleys of Gunmetal City.
Table 7-4: Investigation Benchmarks
Complexity Difficulty Modifier Example Time
Simple Easy +30 Discovering marketplace gossip 1 hour
Basic Routine +20 Finding a general’s major victories 6 hours
Drudging Ordinary +10 Finding a general’s service record 24 hours
Taxing Challenging +0 Identifying an obscure poison 72 hours
Arduous Difficult –10 Tracing the origin of a machine spirit 14 days
Involved Hard –20 Translating an entire book 1 month
Labyrinthine Very Hard –30 Cataloguing a datacrypt 1d5 years
186Surp riseWhen playing in such detailed moments of time, the
SURPRISE
GM must slice the action up into Rounds and Turns. A
Round is approximately five seconds of Action. During a
Round, participants in the encounter each have a Turn to
act. Each character’s Turn overlaps slightly, so Actions are
almost simultaneous within the Round. Combat is the most
common time that players will encounter detailed time or
“Combat Time”, but is by no means the only circumstance
where Rounds and Turns are used. See Movement on
page 212 for more details.
Combat Overview
COMBAT OVERVIEW
Each character, including NPCs, takes a Turn within the
Round. It is therefore necessary to determine the order in
which Actions are taken. When combat begins, follow these
steps to determine what happens.
Step One: Surprise
When beginning a combat, the GM determines if any of
the combatants are Surprised. This only affects the first
Round and isn’t always necessary even then. Surprised
combatants lose their Turn on the first Round of combat.
They are caught unawares and their opponents get a full
Round’s “drop” on them. If no one is Surprised, then move
immediately onto Step Two.
Step Two: Roll INItiatIVe
At the start of the first Round, each combatant must roll for
Initiative. Each combatant rolls 1d10 and adds his Agility
Bonus (the tens digit of his Agility characteristic). The result
of the roll applies for all successive Rounds in the combat.
Step Three: DetermINe INItiatIVe Order
The GM ranks all the Initiative rolls, including those of the
NPCs and creatures, from highest to lowest. This is the order
that characters will act in during each Round of combat.
Step Four: Characters Take Turns
Starting with the participant with the highest Initiative roll,
each character takes a Turn. During his Turn, a character can
perform one or more Actions. Once a character has finished
his Actions, the next participant takes a Turn and so on.
Step FIVe: Round Ends
Once each participant has taken a Turn, the Round is over.
Step SIX: Repeat Steps Four and
FIVe as Needed
Continue to play successive Rounds until the combat is
complete or until you finished whatever it is that triggered
the switch from Narrative Time to Combat Time.
Surprise only affects the first Round of combat. It is
up to the GM to decide if any of the combatants are
Surprised. Ultimately, this comes down to a judgement
call on the GM’s part, based on the circumstances and
the Actions of the various combatants leading up to
the encounter. The GM should take the following into
account when determining Surprise:
•
•
•
•
Is anyone hiding? Successful use of the Concealment skill
before the combat may mean that some combatants are
hidden. Extremely wary characters may oppose this with
a Perception Test.
Is anyone sneaky? Successful use of the Silent Move
skill may have positioned some characters for an
ambush. Again, wary opponents may oppose this with
a Perception Test.
Are there any unusual circumstances that would mask
the approach of attackers? This can cover nearly
anything, from pouring rain to whining engines to
nearby explosions.
Are there any distractions? It’s possible that something
quite distracting is going on. A cultist’s attention may be
so fixated on the sermon of his confessor that he doesn’t
notice his attackers approaching.
Bearing all of this in mind, the GM must decide which
combatants are Surprised. Whilst it’s often the case that
one entire side or the other is Surprised, there can be
individual exceptions. For example, mutants may easily
Surprise a unit of green Guardsmen, but not their keen-
eyed commissar.
If no one is Surprised, proceed with the combat as
normal. Surprised characters lose their Turn in the first
Round. They can do nothing except stand dumbfounded
whilst their opponents fall upon them, with the attackers
gaining +30 to hit during the first Round of combat only.
After the first Round, Surprised characters recover their
wits and can act normally.
Example
Having dealt with one group of cultists, Mordechai and
Drake continue on their mission only to fall foul of an
ambush by more members of the Barbed Chalice. The
combat begins when the cultists attempt to shoot their
autoguns at the Acolytes from concealed positions. The
GM decides that Mordechai and Drake are Surprised.
The cultists aim and shoot at the unlucky Acolytes. Since
they are Surprised, Mordechai and Drake do not get a
chance to act. Once the cultists have taken their shots,
the Surprise Round ends. The GM starts at the top of the
Initiative order for Round two and the combat proceeds
as normal.
187Example
Mordechai, an Arbitrator with AB of 3 (the tens digit from
his Agility of 35), rolls for Initiative when his group is
attacked by three cultists of the Barbed Chalice. He rolls a
6 on a d10, so his Initiative for this combat is 9 (6+3). His
companion, Drake, gets an 8 and the cultists 7. So, Mordechai
goes first, followed by Drake, and then by the cultists.
INITIATIVE
ACTIONS
Initiative Actions
Initiative determines the order in which participants act during
During each normal Round, every character gets a Turn to
each Round. To determine Initiative, roll 1d10 and add the result
act. On his Turn, a character can take one or more Actions.
to the character or NPC’s Agility Bonus. Naturally, the GM rolls
There are five types of Actions in Dark Heresy.
the Initiative of any NPCs and creatures present.
GMs can make one Initiative roll for each group of like
characters. For example, if there are three gangers in the
combat, all of which have the same Characteristics, it isn’t
necessary to roll Initiative separately for each ganger. One
Full Action
A Full Action requires a character’s complete attention to
accomplish on his Turn. A character that takes a Full Action
cannot take any Half Actions this Round.
roll will do for all of them and they’ll act at the same time in
the Initiative order.
Half Action
A Half Action is fairly simple, like moving or drawing a
weapon. A character can take two different Half Actions on
his Turn instead of taking a Full Action.
Note that you may not take the same Half Action twice.
Reactions
A Reaction is an Action that is made in response to
some event such as an attack. All characters receive one
Reaction each Round, which may only be used when it
is not their Turn. Examples include making a Dodge Test
or Parrying an attack.
Free Action
A Free Action takes but a split second and so can be
taken in addition to any other Actions you make in a
Round. There is no formal limit to the number of Free
Actions a character can make in a Round, but a GM
should use common sense to set reasonable limits on
what can be done in a few seconds.
Extended Actions
Some Actions take more time than a single Round to
complete. Once you commit yourself to an Extended
Action, you are considered to be working towards
completing that Action for as long as it takes. Should
you be interrupted or if you abandon the Extended
Action, all progress towards completing it is lost.
UsINg Actions
Typical Actions include drawing a weapon, attacking and
moving. During his Turn, a character may perform one
Full Action or two different Half Actions. A character
could, for example, make a charge attack (Full Action)
or aim and shoot (two Half Actions). It’s important to
remember that a Round is only a few seconds long, so
the character’s Turn within that Round is but a few
moments.
Any Action can be combined with talking, banter,
battle cries and other short verbal expressions—these are
considered Free Actions. It is left to the GM to decide
what a player might be able to say in the time—obviously
a terse warning or a wry aside to a comrade would be
acceptable. Reciting the complete one-hundred and
seventeen rules for the denunciation and chastisement of
traitors to the Imperium would not be.
Once everyone has rolled, the GM makes a list and places
each character or creature in order, from highest to lowest.
This is the order the combatants act in each Round, until the
combat is over.
If more than one character has the same Initiative, they act
in order from the highest Agility to the lowest. If they also
have the same Agility then each should roll a die, with the
highest going first.
Most combats last for multiple Rounds. You only need to
determine Initiative at the start of the fight, however. Once
the Initiative order has been established, it remains the same
from Round to Round. If new combatants join in the midst
of the encounter, simply roll Initiative for them and add them
to the order.
Example
The combat has been raging for three Rounds now and one
of the cultists has been slain. Alerted by the noise ,a corrupt
enforcer arrives to aid the cultists, so the GM rolls Initiative
and gets a 7. The enforcer has 25 Agility (giving him an AB of
2), so he goes after Mordechai (Initiative roll of 7 plus Agility
Bonus of 2=Initiative of 9). In the new Round, the revised
Initiative order is Mordechai (9), enforcer (9), Drake (8), and
finally the two remaining cultists (7).
“Strike fast and suddenly. Attack WIthout
warNINg. Secure VIctory before the foe is aware
of his danger. Remember always, a war is easily
won if your enemy does not know he is fightINg.”
188Example
Vos has rolled an Initiative of 11 this Round. When his Turn
comes, he must decide what to do. As he has finally found the
Grox he has been tracking, he decides to move up to the beast
and then hack at it with his chain axe. Moving and attacking
are both Half Actions, so Vos can’t do anything more this
Round. Once his Actions are resolved, the next combatant in
Initiative order (in this case, the rather annoyed Grox, with an
Initiative of 10) takes its Turn.
A character attempting an Extended Action must continue
with that Action until it’s finished. He can’t start to reload
a musket, move and then finish reloading, for example. A
character may abort the Action part-way through, but this
means that all the time spent on it thus far is wasted.
Most Actions must be completed during your Turn. You
can’t start a charge attack in one Round and finish it on the
next. Some Actions, however, take longer than a single Round
to complete. These are known as Extended Actions and they
are noted in the following descriptions.
Example
Hybris, a Tech-Priest, needs to reload his heavy stubber, which
takes two Full Actions. He starts on his next Turn, taking one
Full Action. On his following Turn, he finishes reloading by
spending another Full Action. If he had chosen to abandon his
reloading efforts after the first Round, the Extended Action
would have been aborted and he’d have to start the process all
over again later, if he still wanted to reload.
Table 7-5: Combat Actions
Attack Actions
Action Type Description
All Out Attack Full +20 to WS, cannot Dodge or Parry.
Charge Full Must move 4 metres, +10 to WS.
Defensive Stance Full Enemies –20 WS, you cannot attack.
Feint Half Opposed WS Test, if you win, your next attack cannot be Dodged or Parried.
Full Auto Burst Full +20 to BS, additional hit for every degree of success.
Grapple Full Make a Grapple attack (see page 197).
Guarded Attack Full –10 WS, +10 to Parry and Dodge.
Knock-Down Half Try and knock an opponent to the ground (see page 190).
Multiple Attacks Full Use Swift Attack or Lightning Attack talents to make multiple attacks.
Overwatch Varies Shoot targets coming into a set kill zone, –20 to BS.
Semi-Auto Burst Full +10 to BS, additional hit for every two degrees of success.
Standard Attack Half Make one melee or ranged attack.
Stun Full Try to Stun an opponent.
Suppressing Fire Full Force opponents to take cover, –20 to BS.
Move Actions
Action Type Description
Disengage Full Break off from melee and move.
Jump/Leap Full Leap or Jump (see page 214).
Manoeuvre Half Opposed WS Test, if you win move enemy 1 metre.
Move Half/Full Move up to your movement as a Half Action or twice your movement as a Full Action.
Run Full Move triple, enemies –20 BS and +20 WS.
Stand/Mount Half Stand up or mount a riding animal.
Tactical Advance Full Move from cover to cover.
Miscellaneous Actions
Action Type Description
Aim Half/Full +10 bonus to hit as a Half Action or +20 to hit as a Full Action on your next attack.
Delay Half Before your next Turn take any Half Action.
Dodge Reaction Test Dodge to negate a hit.
Focus Power Varies Use a Psychic Power.
Parry Reaction Test Weapon Skill to negate a hit.
Ready Half Ready a weapon or item.
Reload Varies Reload a ranged weapon.
Use Skill Varies You may use a Skill.
189Actions
These Actions provide players with a variety of manoeuvres,
giving their characters a range of options in combat. Actions
are divided up into Attack Actions, Movement Actions and
Miscellaneous Actions.
Attack Actions
Attack Actions are any Action that involves attacking and
damaging your opponents.
All Out Attack (Full Action)
You make a furious melee attack, exposing yourself to danger
in order to land a forceful blow. You gain a +20 bonus on
your Weapon Skill Test, but you may not Parry or Dodge
until your next Turn.
Charge (Full Action)
You rush up to an opponent and deliver a single attack. The
opponent must be at least 4 metres away from you, but within
your Charge Move (see Table 7-28: Movement (Metres/
Round) on page 212). The last 4 metres of the Charge must
be in a straight line, so you can build up speed and line up
with your opponent. You gain a +10 bonus to your Weapon
Skill Test made at the end of the Charge.
Defensive Stance (Full Action)
You strike no blows this Round as you concentrate on self-
defence. Until your next Turn, all opponents suffer a –20
penalty to Weapon Skill Tests made to attack you.
Feint (Half Action)
You pretend to attack in one direction, deceiving your
opponent and throwing off his defence. This is resolved by
an Opposed Weapon Skill Test. If you win, your next attack
cannot be Dodged or Parried. If your next Action is anything
other than a Standard Attack, you lose this advantage.
Full Auto Burst (Full Action)
You hurl a burst of fully automatic fire at your opponents. You
must be using a weapon capable of fully automatic fire to take
this Action. (See Rate of Fire on page 127)
Your vast hail of fire grants a +20 modifier to your Ballistic
Skill Test. If the ranged attack is successful, a hit is scored as
normal. Furthermore, every degree of success scores an extra
hit. The number of extra hits you can score in this manner may
not exceed the fully automatic rate of fire for your weapon.
Your extra hits can be either allocated to the original target or
any other target within 2 metres (provided that the new target
would not have been harder to hit). See Table 7-6 Multiple
Hits, page 190 to determine the Hit Locations for multiple
hits against the same target. Alternatively, as an optional rule,
you may roll dice to determine the location of each additional
hit, though doing so will slow the game down.
A result of 94 to 00 on your Ballistic Skill Test indicates that
your weapon has Jammed (see Weapon Jams on page 196).
If you have a pistol in either hand you may fire them both
(see Two-Weapon Fighting on page 197).
190
Table 7-6: Multiple Hits
Location Second Third Fourth Fifth
Each
Additional Hit
Head Head Arm Body Arm Body
Arm Arm Body Head Body Arm
Body Body Arm Head Arm Body
Leg Leg Body Arm Head Body
Grapple (Full Action)
Whether you are Grappling or being Grappled, you may
only take the Grapple Action. If Grappling, you may make an
Opposed Strength Test to injure your opponent. If you beat
your opponent, you deal normal unarmed Damage (1d5–3
plus SB, with Armour Points counting double) and one level
of Fatigue. If your opponent wins, you deal no Damage, but
your opponent is still Grappled.
If you are being Grappled, you may make an Opposed
Strength Test to break free or take control of the Grapple.
If you win the Test, you escape the Grapple or you begin
Grappling your opponent and can now deal Damage on
your next Action. See Grappling on page 197 for more
information on starting a Grapple.
Guarded Attack (Full Action)
You attack carefully, making sure you are well defended from
counter-attacks. You make a melee attack with a –10 penalty
to your Weapon Skill Test. Until your next Action, though,
you gain a +10 bonus on Dodge or Parry Tests.
Knock-Down (Half Action)
You smash into your opponent in the hopes of knocking him
from his feet. You and your opponent make Opposed Strength
Tests. If you succeed, you Knock-Down your opponent who
falls to the ground and must use the Stand Action to get
back to their feet. If you succeed by two or more degrees of
success your opponent also takes SB–4 Damage and one level
of Fatigue. If your opponent wins, he keeps his footing. If
your opponent wins by two or more degrees of success and
you fail, you are Knocked-Down instead. If you spent a Half
Action to move first, you gain a +10 bonus to your Test.
Multiple Attacks (Full Action)
If you have the Swift Attack or Lightning Attack talents, you
may spend a Full Action to make multiple attacks as determined
by the Talent you have. Or, if you have a weapon in your
secondary hand you may also make an extra attack with this
weapon (see Two-Weapon Fighting on page 197).
Overwatch (Varies)
You guard a particular area, poised to hurl an enormous volley
of fire at any opponent foolish enough to approach. You must be
using a weapon capable of full automatic fire to take this Action
(see Rate of Fire on page 127). Overwatch is an Extended
Action, which may operate over multiple Rounds of combat.
Pick an area to watch. The size of this area, known as your
kill zone, extends 45 degrees out from the direction you are
facing up to half the Range of the weapon. It is often easierto say that you are covering a specific area such as a corridor,
doorway or section of treeline. If there is any doubt, the GM
has final say on whether a target is in your kill zone or not.
Establishing your kill zone takes a Full Turn.
Once your kill zone is established, you may spend
subsequent Turns waiting for targets to enter your kill zone.
Whilst lying in wait, at any time before your next Turn, you
may take the Full Auto Burst Action to fire at any targets within
your kill zone (see Full Auto Burst on page 190). Additionally,
when you use your reserved Full Auto Burst, characters within
the kill zone must make a Hard (–20) Pinning Test (see Pinning
on page 196). If this Action occurs at the same time as another
character’s, the character with the higher Agility Bonus acts first.
If both characters have the same Agility Bonus, you must make
an Opposed Agility Test to see who acts first.
You may continue Overwatch for up to your Willpower Bonus
in hours. After this time you must rest and refresh yourself for
1d10×10 minutes. Once you have used your Full Auto Burst
Action, Overwatch ends. You may opt to end Overwatch during
your Turn, even if you have not used your reserved shot.
If you take any other Action or Reaction whilst reserving
your shot in this manner, Overwatch immediately ends,
whether you have used your reserved shot or not. Note that
this does not include Free Actions, such as speech.
Semi-Auto Burst (Full Action)
You hurl a burst of semi-automatic fire at your opponents.
You must be using a weapon capable of semi-automatic fire to
take this Action (see Rate of Fire on page 127).
Your increased volume of fire grants a +10 modifier to your
Ballistic Skill Test. If the ranged attack is successful, a hit is scored
as normal. Furthermore, every two degrees of success scores an
extra hit. The number of extra hits you can score in this manner
may not exceed the semi-automatic rate of fire for your weapon.
Your extra hits can be either allocated to the original target or
to any other target within two metres (provided the new target
would not have been harder to hit). See Table 7-6: Multiple
Hits, page 190 to determine the Hit Locations for multiple hits
against the same target. Alternatively, as an optional rule, you
may roll dice to determine the location of each additional hit,
though doing so will slow the game down.
A result of 94–00 on your Ballistic Skill Test indicates that
your weapon has Jammed (see Weapon Jams on page 196).
If you have a pistol in either hand you may fire them both
(see Two-Weapon Fighting on page 197).
Standard Attack (Half Action)
You can make one melee or ranged attack by Testing Weapon
Skill or Ballistic Skill. Certain weapons require Talents to use
them effectively (see Chapter IV: Talents). You can still make
attacks with these weapons if you lack the proper Talents, but
you do so with a –20 penalty to your Weapon Skill for melee
weapons or Ballistic Skill for ranged weapons.
Stun (Full Action)
When unarmed or armed with a melee weapon, you can strike
to Stun rather than attempt to land a killing blow. Whilst any
character may attempt this Action, only characters with the
Takedown talent stand a good chance of succeeding. Striking
to Stun is resolved in a similar way to making a Standard
Attack. Test Weapon Skill. If you don’t have Takedown, take
a –20 penalty to the Test. On a success, roll 1d10 and add
your Strength Bonus. Your opponent rolls 1d10 and adds his
Toughness Bonus +1 per Armour Point protecting his head.
If your roll is equal to or higher, your opponent is Stunned
for a number of Rounds equal to the difference between the
rolls and gains one level of Fatigue.
Suppressing Fire (Full Action)
You unleash a devastating hail of firepower to force your
opponents into cover. You must be using a weapon capable
of fully automatic fire to take this Action (see Rate of Fire
on page 127).
Pick an area to suppress. The size of this area, known as
your kill zone, extends 45 degrees out from the direction you
are facing up to half the range of the weapon. It is often easier
to say you are covering a specific area such as a corridor,
doorway or section of treeline. If there is any doubt, the GM
has final say on whether a target is in your kill zone or not.
Targets within this area must make a Hard (–20) Pinning Test
(see Pinning on page 196).
Additionally, you must make a Hard (–20) Ballistic Skill
Test to see if your wild spray of fire has hit anyone, friend or
foe, within the kill zone. If the ranged attack is successful, the
GM assigns the hit to a random target within the kill zone.
Furthermore, every two degrees of success scores an extra hit
against another random victim. Use of the Suppressing Fire
Action does not affect the defensive benefits of armour or cover.
The number of hits scored may not exceed the fully automatic
rate of fire for your weapon. See Table 7-6: Multiple Hits,
page 190 to determine the Hit Locations for multiple hits
against the same target. Alternatively, as an optional rule, you
may roll dice to determine the location of each additional hit,
though doing so will slow the game down.
A result of 94 to 00 on your Ballistics Skill Test
indicates that your weapon has Jammed (see Weapon
Jams on page 196).
Combat Abstractions
Combat in Dark Heresy is fast and furious, designed so
your games don’t become bogged down with minutia.
As such, the rules take certain licences with reality and
assumptions must be made about what is really going on
during a combat. Generally speaking, when two characters
are engaged, they are exchanging attacks, Parries,
Dodges, Feints and a number of other manoeuvres, all of
which are rolled into the Standard Attack. Therefore, a
Test against Weapon Skill or Ballistic Skill assumes that
the defender is attempting to defend himself to some
degree—hence a typical Attack Test is Challenging (+0).
A failed Test means that the defender was too difficult
to hit effectively, whilst a successful Test means that the
attacker was able to strike a telling blow. Where Dodge
and Parry come into play, they represent your last line of
defence against an attacker, giving you one more chance
to avoid a bullet or the swing of a chainsword.
191Move Actions
Move Actions let you manoeuvre on the battlefield.
Disengage (Full Action)
You break off from melee combat and may move up to your
Half Move rate. Opponents whom you were engaged with do
not gain the customary free attacks. See Fleeing sidebar for
more details.
FleeINg
Sometimes it is just best to get away from your opponent
by any means you can. In combat, you may voluntarily
flee from an opponent or be forced to flee because of
Fear, a Psychic Power or some other effect. When fleeing
under your own control, you can take any of the following
actions: Disengage, Move or Run. When fleeing against
your will, you must take the Run action. Under most
circumstances (except for Disengaging), you’re turning
your back on your opponent and leaving yourself open
for an attack. If you are trying to move away from one
or more melee opponents without using the Disengage
Action, each opponent gets a free attack against you as you
move away. This is an extra attack and is made in addition
to any other attacks they make during their Turn.
You can move up to your Full Move rate provided that you
move from a position of cover and end your movement in
a position of cover. For the duration of your move, you are
considered to benefit from cover, even though you are moving
in the open for a brief time.
Miscellaneous Actions
Miscellaneous Actions encompass everything else you might
wish to do in combat.
Aim (Half or Full Action)
You may take extra time to set up a melee or ranged attack
to increase the chance to hit. If you spend a Half Action to
aim, your next attack is made at a +10 to your Weapon Skill
(for melee attacks) or Ballistic Skill (for ranged attacks). If
you spend a Full Action Aiming, the bonus increases to +20.
The attack must follow immediately otherwise the benefits of
Aiming are lost.
Delay (Half Action)
You watch and wait for an opportunity. When you use the
delay Action, your Turn ends immediately, but you reserve
a Half Action for later use. Any time before your next Turn,
you can take your reserved Half Action. If you try to do
something at the same time as another character that used a
delay Action, you must make an Opposed Agility Test to see
who acts first. If the prepared Action is not taken before your
next Turn, it is lost.
Dodge
Jump/Leap (Full Action)
You can Jump up or down, or Leap across something. For
Jumping and Leaping, see page 214.
Manoeuvre (Half Action)
By using superior footwork and aggression, you can force your
opponent to move one metre in a direction of your choosing by
making an Opposed Weapon Skill Test. If desired, you can advance
one metre as well. The opponent cannot be forced into another
character or some other obstacle (wall, barrel, and so on).
Move (Half or Full Action)
You can make a short move. If you spend a Half Action to
move, you may move up to that described on Table 7-28:
Movement in Metres/Round on page 212. If you use a
Full Action, you may move twice this value. Whenever you
end your movement adjacent to an adversary, you are said to
be engaged with that opponent.
Run (Full Action)
You run at full speed (see Table 7-28: Movement in Metres/
Round on page 212 for distances). This makes you harder to hit
with missile weapons, but easy prey for melee attacks because you
are not actively defending. Until your next Turn, ranged attacks
made against you take a –20 penalty to Ballistic Skill Tests, but
melee attacks gain a +20 bonus to Weapon Skill Tests.
Stand/Mount (Half Action)
You can get up if currently on the ground, or mount a riding
beast or a vehicle.
Tactical Advance (Full Action)
192Dodge is a Basic Skill, so anyone may attempt it even without
training. Once a hit is scored, but before Damage is rolled, you
can try to Dodge if you were aware of the attack. This is simply
a Dodge Test. If the Dodge Test succeeds, you get out of the
way at the last minute and the attack is considered to have
missed (and thus there is no Damage roll). If you fail the Test,
the attack connects and your opponent may roll for Damage as
usual. You may Dodge both melee and ranged attacks.
Dodging Auto-Fire and Area Effect Attacks
Example
It seems that the barman has taken exception to Drake’s treatment
of his paying customers and on his Initiative, starts combat by
charging the Guardsman with a shock maul. The barman makes
a Weapon Skill Test and hits. Drake can Test Dodge to get out of
the way. He rolls the dice and compares the result to his Agility. He
succeeds and manages to duck beneath the arc of the shock maul.
Some attacks are more difficult to Dodge either because they
cover a large area, like a grenade or flamer, or because they
throw out large amounts of rounds, like a weapon fired on
Full or Semi-Automatic Bursts.
When Dodging an area effect weapon, a successful Dodge
Test will move the character to the edge of the area of effect,
as long as it is no further away than their Agility Bonus in
metres. If they would need to move further than this to avoid
the attack then the Dodge Test automatically fails.
When Dodging Full or Semi-Automatic fire, each degree
of success negates an additional hit.
Focus Power (Varies)
Example
Father Horst is surprised by a mutant trooper with an autogun
sneaking into the far end of his chapel-trench. The mutant has
the drop on Father Horst, and so gets a Full Turn to act before
Father Horst can do anything.
The debased-looking trooper uses his Turn to spray a Full
Auto Burst (a Full Action) at Father Horst. The mutant gains
+20 to his Ballistic Skill of 30 because of the sheer number
of slugs his autogun is hurling. The mutant scores a 19 on his
Test—a hit! As he has three degrees of success (50–19=31)
the trooper has managed to score one additional hit.
Being a sensible soul, Father Horst decides use his Reaction
to try and Dodge the Full Auto Burst. Father Horst Tests
against his Agility of 40, and scores a 17. As this grants two
degrees of success (40–17=23) Father Horst can escape two
of the mutant’s hits. Somehow, Father Horst has avoided all
Damage—a miracle!
This Action is used to manifest your Psychic Powers in combat.
How long the Focus Power Action takes is dependant on the power
being manifested. When you take this Action you roll a number
of dice and add a bonus dependant on your Psy Rating. Then
compare the total to the Psychic Threshold (PT). If this number
equals or exceeds the PT, the power takes effect. Otherwise, it has
failed and you may try again next Turn. For more information on
Psychic Powers, see Chapter VI: Psychic Powers.
Parry
You can attempt to Parry a successful attack if you are wielding
a drawn melee weapon (see Chapter V: Armoury) and are
aware of the attack. To Parry, Test Weapon Skill. If you succeed,
you beat back the attack and it is considered to have missed
(thus, there’s no Damage roll). If you fail the Test, the attack
connects and your opponent may roll for Damage as usual.
Parrying requires no special Skill or Talent to attempt.
You may only use Parry to negate melee attacks.
Ready (Half Action)
You can draw a weapon or retrieve an object stowed in a
pouch or pocket. You can also put an item away that you are
currently holding. So, you could holster a pistol and unsheathe
a knife as one Half Action. You can also use this Action to do
such things as apply a medi-patch, inject stimm or some other
kind of drug, or coat a weapon with the contents of a vial of
poison, for example. You may use the Ready Action twice in
one Turn if you are preparing two different items.
Reload (Varies)
You can reload a missile weapon. See Chapter V: Armoury
for the time it takes to reload different missile weapons.
Reload can be an Extended Action.
Use a Skill (Varies)
You may use a Skill. This usually involves making a Skill
Test. This can be an Extended Action, depending on the
Skill and the circumstances.
Example
Vos is still battling the ill-tempered Grox. He has scored an
Initiative of 7 while the Grox has an Initiative of 4, meaning
Vos goes first. In his turn he spends a Half Action to Aim with
his chain axe and then his remaining Half Action to attack.
Unfortunately, Vos misses, despite the bonus for Aiming.
It is now the Grox’s Turn. Angered by the large hairy creature
trying to kill it, the Grox uses a Full Action to make an All-
Out Attack, though fortunately for Vos it also misses. As a Free
Action the Grox lets out a whining bray calling for help from the
herd. Since there are no more combatants, the Round ends.
As the new Round begins, a Bull-Grox appears from the forest
in answer to its fellow’s cry for aid. The GM rolls Initiative for
the new combatant and determines that the Bull-Grox can act
before Vos. The Bull-Grox Charges (a Full Action) and hits
the feral warrior inflicting a nasty wound. Now it is Vos’ Turn
again. Wisely, he decides that two Grox is a Grox too many and
beats a hasty retreat using a Disengage Action.
193The AttackOther Actions
THE ATTACK
If a player wants to do something not covered by the
The most common Action in combat is the attack—you are
Actions described here, the GM should make a judgement
fighting, after all. Whether armed with a melee or ranged
about how long something might take and what type of
weapon, the process is the same. Follow these steps to resolve
Action it would be. Generally, most Actions should be
attacks in combat.
resolved with some sort of Test: Characteristic Test, Skill
Test or Opposed Test. Keep in mind that a Round is only a
few seconds long, which is a very limited amount of time
to accomplish a task.
Step One: Test
To make a melee attack with a hand-held weapon, you must be
engaged with your target. Test Weapon Skill. When making a
ranged attack, you Test Ballistic Skill. Both of these are like
any other Tests. If you roll equal to or below your Weapon
Skill or Ballistic Skill, you hit your opponent.
Step Two: Determine Hit Location
On a successful hit, you next need to determine where
the hit landed. Using the Test result, reverse the order
of the dice, (e.g. a roll of 32 becomes 23, 19 becomes
91, and so on) and compare this number to Table 7-7:
Hit Locations. Note that certain creatures with different
body shapes, or mounted opponents, may use different
hit location tables.
The Tactical Map
The Dark Heresy rules are written so you can use a tactical
map and 28mm miniatures whilst playing out combat. This
approach adds a visual element to the game and allows
you to instantly understand the relative positions of all the
combatants. You can find maps that are blank and can be
written on with wet-erase pens. These allow you to sketch
out the terrain and other important features on the map
before combat begins. Wet-erase maps also make it easy
to track the duration of Psychic Powers, reload times, and
the like since you can scribble notes on the map. A tactical
map is overlaid with a grid of one-inch squares to make
measuring distances easier. In Dark Heresy, these squares
represent a distance of one metre.
To make fullest use of the tactical map, you’ll need
miniatures. You’ll want one for each PC, and the GM
should try to collect a fair number of the most common foes
(gangers, cultists, mutants and so on). If you don’t have any
miniatures, there are all sorts of things you can substitute,
like counters, coins, or stones. Humans, mutants and other
similarly sized creatures occupy a single square on the map.
Larger creatures can take up 2, 4, or even more squares.
If you don’t like tactical maps, but still want to use
miniatures, the rules can easily accommodate this. Simply use
a tape measure and each inch of distance equals one metre.
This makes movement more flexible and has the advantage of
allowing the easy use of three-dimensional terrain.
Some gamers don’t like to use miniatures at all, preferring
to imagine all the action. This is okay too. This method
requires the GM to keep a snapshot of the action and the
relative positions of all the combatants in his head, but it
also allows for greater narrative freedom in describing
encounters.
Table 7-7: Hit Locations
Roll Location
01–10 Head
11–20 Right Arm
21–30 Left Arm
31–70 Body
71–85 Right Leg
86–00 Left Leg
Example
Pieter (BS35) shoots at the oncoming ganger, rolling 13—a
hit! Reversing the number rolled gives 31, the ganger has been
shot in the body.
Step Three: Determine Damage
Once you’ve determined the Hit Location, it is time to work out any
Damage you have dealt. Each weapon has a Damage listing. This
is usually a die roll, plus or minus a number. Roll the appropriate
die, and add the Damage Bonus of the weapon. Finally, if you are
using a melee weapon, add your Strength Bonus.
This is the Damage total. If you roll a “10” on any of
your Damage dice, you have a chance of Righteous Fury!
(see sidebar).
Step Four: Apply Damage
From the Damage total, your opponent subtracts his Toughness
Bonus and any Armour Points that protect the location that is
hit. If this reduces the Damage total to 0 or less, your opponent
has shrugged off the attack. Any remaining Damage is recorded
on his character sheet as Damage. Should this injury equal or
exceed his Wounds, he notes any excess as Critical Damage and
194the GM consults the appropriate table based on the weapon
used and the amount of Critical Damage accumulated. See
Critical Damage on page 201 for more information.
Example
Drake has a Ballistic Skill of 42 and uses his triplex-pattern
lasgun to shoot a gambler foolish enough to accuse him of
cheating. He rolls a 27. Since this is less than his Ballistic Skill,
he has scored a hit. Next, he reverses the dice rolled to see where
he hits, which is a 72—the Right Leg. Now he rolls Damage. He
is using a lasgun, which does 1d10+3 Damage. He rolls 1d10
and gets an 8, for a total of 11 (8+3=11). The gambler has a
Toughness Bonus of 3 and is wearing a concealed quilted vest.
Since the armour does not cover the legs, the gambler can only use
his Toughness Bonus to reduce the Damage. The gambler takes
8 Wounds (11–3=8), hopefully discouraging him from making
any rash accusations in future.
DealINg Damage
Any attack, Psychic Power or hazard that deals Damage
generally indicates the amount of Damage with a die type,
and Damage modifier. For example, a lasgun’s Damage is
1d10+3. This means that in order to discover the injury
caused by the weapon, you roll one d10 and add 3 to the
result. This gives your Damage total. In some cases, the
modifier will subtract from the Damage you have rolled.
When dealing Damage with a melee attack, your
Strength Bonus also comes into play.
To calculate Damage done with a hand-to-hand weapon,
such as a chainsword, hammer or spear, you calculate the
Damage as normal and then add your Strength Bonus.
Righteous Fury!
Normally, when you hit with an attack, the resulting
Damage includes rolling one or more d10s. When you
roll a 10 on any die (this includes a result of 10 when
using a d5—even though the number is halved), it
may indicate that the eye of the Emperor is upon you.
This calls for a second attack roll, Testing Weapon
Skill or Ballistic Skill as if you were making another
attack. If this second Test is successful, the spirit of
the Emperor is within you, aiding your attack and
guiding your aim. You can roll an additional 1d10
and add the result to the Damage total.
Should the result of this die also be a 10, the
Emperor has indeed smiled upon you. You may
immediately roll a third 1d10 and add that to the
Damage total as well. This process continues until
you roll a number other than 10.
Example
Father Horst is fighting in a mud-filled trench on a Throne-
forsaken battlefield. A crazed Chaos worshipper moves in to
attack Horst, and misses. Hefting his blessed hammer, Horst
swings at the degenerate scum. Success! His attack hits. The
Damage of Horst’s hammer is 1d10+1. Horst rolls a 6 on his
Damage die, and then adds the Damage modifier of 1. Finally,
Horst adds his Strength Bonus of 2 (his Strength is 29). In
total, Horst has dealt 9 points of Damage (6+1+2=9).
Whether your Damage total can be reduced depends on the
nature of the attack, but Damage is typically reduced by the
target’s Toughness Bonus and Armour Points that protect the
location struck.
Not content to let things lie, the gambler has charged
Drake with a knife. The Veteran Guardsman responds
by smashing him across the face with the butt of his
lasgun. Drake rolls for Damage, and scores a 10!
He has a chance of dealing extra Damage. He makes
a second attack roll and succeeds again. He rolls
another d10 and once again gets a 10. Rather than
make another Weapon Skill Test, Drake just rolls
another d10. This time it comes up 8. The Damage
total for this attack is 4 (Drake’s SB) + 10 +10 +
8, for a total of 32 Damage. It doesn’t look like the
gambler will be getting up anytime soon.
Normally NPCs do not benefit from the Righteous Fury
rule, however, at the GM’s discretion particularly important
or powerful NPCs might take advantage of this rule.
Ranged Attacks
Ranged attacks—lasguns, scatterguns, thrown weapons,
etc.—are resolved in the same way as melee attacks,
except that you Test Ballistic Skill instead of Weapon
Skill. In addition, there are a few extra considerations
that apply to these attacks.
• Ranged attacks cannot be Parried, unless you have a
special Talent.
•
You do not add your Strength Bonus to the Damage of
ranged attacks.
•
You cannot make ranged attacks whilst engaged in melee,
unless you are armed with a ranged weapon that is classed
as a pistol.
•
You must be able to see the target. You may still attack
targets that are partly visible, such as those standing behind
a tree or behind other targets, but they will often be in
cover. If you are aware of an opponent that is completely
concealed from you by a barrier, you can attempt the
shot, but at a –30 penalty and the shot must deal enough
Damage to breach the barrier. When shooting at unseen
targets you also gain no bonuses for range.
195Shooting into Melee
There will be times when a target is already engaged with another
enemy. Ballistic Skill Tests against these opponents are harder
than normal. You can still make a ranged attack at an opponent
engaged in melee, but you take a –20 penalty to the Test.
Optional Rule: GMs keen on reinforcing the merciless nature
of the 41st Millennium may rule that if you would have hit the
target were it not for the penalty, you instead hit the target’s
opponent. The GM might also rule that anyone shooting into
melee with a semi-automatic or full automatic weapon must
allocate at least one of their hits against the target’s opponent.
Missing
Sometimes, when flinging a thrown weapon, it’s important to
know where the weapon lands should you fail on your Ballistic
Skill Test. On a failed roll, the GM rolls 1d10 and consults the
following Scatter Diagram. Roll 1d5 to determine the number
of metres the weapon travels in the indicated direction.
1 2
3
4 5
Target
6-7 9-0
8
Scatter Diagram
Pinning
Being shot at is a terrifying experience at the best of times
and even the most inexperienced Acolytes know to keep
their heads down when the bullets and bolt shells start flying.
Pinning represents a character’s survival instincts telling him
to stay in cover. While he may want to charge headlong into
a storm of bullets, he first needs to steel his nerves. When a
character is on the receiving end of suppressive fire, even if the
shot struck a Hit Location that is behind cover or the character
suffers no Damage, he must make a Hard (–20 ) Pinning Test.
This is a Willpower Test. On a success, the character may act
normally. On a failure, the character becomes Pinned.
Being Pinned
A Pinned character may only take Half Actions. Additionally, he
must take a –20 penalty to Ballistic Skill Tests if he fires, snapping off
shots while being mindful of their own safety. If a Pinned character
is in cover relative to the attacker that Pinned them, he may not
leave it except to retreat (provided that he can remain in cover while
doing so). If he is not in cover when Pinned he must use his next
Turn to reach cover. If there is no cover nearby, he must move away
from the attacker that Pinned him. A character can Test Willpower at
the end of his Turn to escape Pinning, in which case he may act as
196
normal in his next Turn. This Test is Easy (+30) if the character is no
longer under fire (i.e. no one tried to shoot him since his last Turn).
A character engaged in close combat automatically escapes Pinning.
There are some special Talents, Skills and Psychic Powers that can
also free a character from the effects of Pinning—as well as such
things as combat drugs and terrifying commissars.
Example
Vos is being pursued by the Grox. Fortunately for him he has
found the burnt-out remains of an Arbites APC to shelter in,
complete with intact pintle-mounted heavy stubber. Aiming
the powerful machine gun in the direction of the Grox, Vos
decides that rather than firing a full auto burst, he will lay
down Suppressive Fire. He chooses a narrow gully nearby as
his kill zone, as this is where the Grox are emerging from.
Each of the three Grox in the kill zone must make a Hard (–20)
Pinning Test to ignore the terrifying effects of Vos’ Suppressing
Fire. Each fails, meaning that the Grox will be forced to use their
Turn to fall back into cover. Vos makes a Hard (–20) Ballistic
Skill Test to see if his volley has struck any of the Grox. He scores
a 55, which means that none of his bullets hit.
On the Grox’s turn, each flees into the cover of the gully. Each
then Tests Willpower to see if they feel brave enough to risk the
hail of bullets once more. Two succeed and one fails.
Seeing that the heavy stubber’s ammo belt is empty, Vos uses
his turn to run away as fast as possible.
The two Grox who managed to escape Pinning are free to
use their turn to chase Vos. The Grox which failed to escape
Pinning, meanwhile, is forced to remain in cover, emptying its
bowels and snorting nervously to itself. As it is no longer under
fire from the heavy stubber, at the end of its turn the cowardly
Grox makes an Easy (+30) Willpower Test to escape Pinning.
The Grox succeeds, meaning that on its subsequent Turn, it
may break from cover and rejoin the chase.
Weapon Jams
Such is the capricious whim of the 41st Millennium that
many of the ranged weapons that an Acolyte uses will have an
unfortunate tendency to malfunction, either through extreme age,
maltreatment of their machine spirit, or just plain poor design.
To represent these unfortunate occurrences, an unmodified result
of 96 to 00, in addition to being an automatic miss, also indicates
the weapon has jammed. A Jammed weapon cannot be fired until
it is cleared. Clearing a Jam is a Full Action which requires a
Ballistic Skill Test. If the Test is successful then the Jam has been
cleared, though the weapon needs to be reloaded and any ammo
in it is lost. If the Test is failed the weapon is still Jammed, though
the character can attempt to clear it again next Round.
Note: Some weapons, such as plasma guns, grenades and
missiles, are particularly dangerous to use. For these weapons refer
to their descriptions and Weapon Special Qualities (see Chapter V:
Armoury). Semi-automatic and fully automatic fire also increases
the likelihood of Jamming. This is described within the Semi-Auto
Burst, Full Auto Burst and Suppressing Fire Actions.Two-Weapon Fighting
Many warriors fight with a weapon in either hand (this
includes shields). There are advantages and disadvantages
to this style of fighting. While it offers some improved
opportunities to make attacks, it reduces the chances of
successfully striking a target. The following apply when
you are fighting with two weapons:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
You may use any close combat weapons or ranged
weapons that you may reasonably use in one hand
when fighting with two weapons.
You may use either hand to make an attack. Attacks
made using your secondary hand take a –20 penalty.
If you have the Two-Weapon Wielder talent, you may
spend a Full Action to attack with both weapons, but
each takes a –20 penalty to the Test. If you have the
Ambidextrous talent, this penalty drops to –10.
If you’re wielding a melee weapon as one of your
two weapons you may make a Parry once each Round
as a Reaction as normal with this weapon, though
you still may not Parry more than once in a Round.
This Weapon Skill Test is not an attack, and therefore
it does suffer the standard penalty for attacks made
using your secondary hand.
If armed with a melee weapon in one hand and a
pistol in the other, you may, with the Two-Weapon
Wielder talent use both in close combat. Resolve each
attack separately by Testing Weapon Skill for the
melee weapon and Ballistic Skill for the pistol. Using
both attacks simultaneously is a Full Action and is
subject to the usual penalties.
When firing a ranged weapon with each hand, you may
fire each weapon on a different mode, for example,
one on full automatic and one on semi-automatic.
When firing a full automatic weapon in each hand,
you may only lay down one area of suppressive fire.
You may fire your weapons at different targets, though
they must be within 10 metres of each other.
Unarmed Combat
Not every fight in Dark Heresy requires bolters and
power swords. Some conflicts can be settled the old-
fashioned way with fists (not to mention feet and, if
you’re a dirty scummer, teeth). A successful Weapon Skill
Test made with an unarmed attack deals 1d5–3 Impact
Damage, plus the character’s Strength Bonus. Armour
Points count as double against the attack. In addition, a
successful hit also causes one level of Fatigue.
During unarmed combat, if you roll a 10 on a die for
Damage the rules for Righteous Fury apply (see page 195)
with 10s counting as 5s in terms of Damage caused.
Grappling
Instead of inflicting Damage with an unarmed attack, you
can attempt to Grapple and immobilise your opponent.
You can attempt a Grapple with either a Charge or a
Standard Attack. Resolve a Grapple by following these
steps.
Step One: Make the Attack
Make an unarmed attack by Testing Weapon Skill as normal.
Step Two: Avoid the Attack
If you succeed, your opponent may use their Reaction to
make an Agility Test. If this Test fails, or they have already
used their Reaction this Round, the opponent is Grappled. If
he succeeds, the Grapple attempt fails.
Step Three: Grapple!
While two or more characters are Grappling, the following
effects apply.
•
•
•
•
Participants in a Grapple may not Dodge or Parry.
Other attackers gain a +20 bonus to Weapon Skill Tests
made to hit a Grappling target.
Grappled characters may only take the Grapple Action (see
Grapple Action on page 190).
As a Free Action, you can voluntarily end the Grapple that
you initiated on your Turn.
CombININg Difficulties
There will be instances where multiple factors make
taking a particular action more difficult than normal. For
example, while in a shadowy hanger bay, trying to shoot
at an opponent at long range is harder that shooting at
the same opponent if the hanger was brightly lit. To
combine multiple factors, use the following guidelines:
•
•
•
If the situation would apply two or more penalties, simply
add the modifiers together to a maximum of –60. For
example, fog and Aiming for a specific body part each
make Ballistic Skill Tests –20 (Hard). When combined,
the test would be –40.
If the situation would apply a penalty and a bonus, add
them together to find the new Difficulty. Attacking
an opponent while standing in deep snow normally
requires a Very Hard (–30) Test. But attacking an
opponent who is Stunned requires a Routine (+20)
Test. In a situation where both apply, the Test would
be Difficult (–10) since –30 plus +20 equals –10.
If the situation would apply two or more bonuses, add
the modifiers together to a maximum of +60. Two
characters that attack the same Stunned opponent
would ordinarily gain a +10 bonus for ganging up
and a +20 bonus for attacking a Stunned target. Thus
the need to make Easy (+30) Weapon Skill Tests to
hit their opponent.
When adjudicating Difficulty, common sense should
prevail. No matter what limit there is on Test penalties,
some shots are simply impossible.
197Combat Circumstances
The chances of hitting in combat can be modified in a similar manner to
Skill Tests. These combat circumstances can be used to reflect the effects
of terrain, the weather, tactical situations and a variety of other factors.
Characters should make as much use of beneficial circumstances as
possible. A good plan, suitable equipment or skilful use of tactics can often
make the difference between life and death for an Acolyte. The following
circumstances are some of the most common ones encountered in combat.
For situations not covered here, use these as a guide. Remember, the GM
has the final say about the Difficulty of any particular Test.
Called Shots
Weapon Skill and Ballistic Skill Tests made to hit a specific
location are Hard (–20). Note you cannot make Called Shots
when firing a weapon on semi-automatic or full automatic fire.
Darkness
Weapon Skill Tests made in darkness are regarded as Hard (–20),
while Ballistic Skill Tests are regarded as Very Hard (–30).
Difficult Terrain
Weapon Skill and Dodge Tests made whilst standing in difficult
terrain such as mud are Difficult (–10). Tests made whilst standing in
arduous terrain such as deep snow or upon ice are Very Hard (–30).
Extreme Range
Targets that are at a distance of three times the range of a
character’s weapon, are at Extreme range. Rolls to hit these
targets with a ranged weapon are Very Hard (–30).
Fatigued
When a character is Fatigued all their Tests, including any
Weapon Skill and Ballistic Skill Tests, suffer a –10 penalty.
Firing a Weapon on Semi-Automatic
Ballistic Skill Tests made to hit targets when firing a weapon
on Semi-Automatic are Ordinary (+10).
Firing a Weapon on Full Automatic
Ballistic Skill Tests made to hit targets when firing a weapon
on Full Automatic are Routine (+20).
Fog, Mist or Shadow
Ballistic Skill Tests made to attack targets concealed by fog,
mist or shadow are Hard (–20).
Ganging Up
You have an advantage when you and your allies engage the
same foe in melee combat. If you outnumber your opponent
Routine +20 Ordinary +10 Table 7-8: Combat Difficulty Summary
Difficulty Skill Modifier Example
Easy +30 Attacking a Surprised opponent.
Shooting a Massive target.
Shooting a target at Point Blank range.
Close combat with foe who is outnumbered three to one or more.
Attacking a Stunned opponent.
Shooting a target with Full Automatic fire.
Shooting an Enormous target.
Close combat with a foe who is outnumbered two to one.
Attacking a Prone opponent.
Attacking from higher ground.
Shooting a target with Semi-Automatic fire.
Shooting a Hulking target.
Shooting a target at Short range.
Challenging +0 A Standard Attack.
Difficult –10 Attacking whilst you are Knocked Down.
Fatigued.
Attacking or Dodging whilst in the mud or heavy rain.
Shooting a target at Long range.
Shooting a Scrawny target.
Hard –20 A Called Shot to a specific location.
Shooting into melee combat.
Dodging whilst Prone.
Making an unarmed attack against an armed opponent.
Secondary hand attack.
Attacking with a weapon in either hand.
Close combat attack in darkness.
Shooting at a target in fog, mist or shadow.
Shooting a Puny target.
Using a weapon without the correct Talent
Very Hard –30 Attacking or Dodging in deep snow.
Shooting a Minuscule target.
Shooting a target at Extreme range.
Shooting at a completely concealed target.
Shooting at a target in darkness.
198two to one, your Weapon Skill Tests are Ordinary (+10). If
you outnumber your opponent by three to one or more, your
Weapon Skill Tests are Routine (+20).
Helpless Targets
Weapon Skill Tests made to hit a sleeping, unconscious or
otherwise helpless target automatically succeed. When rolling
Damage against such a target roll two dice and add the results.
If either die rolled comes up as a 10, you have a chance at
Righteous Fury. If both dice come up as 10, you automatically
gain Righteous Fury, and roll Damage again.
Higher Ground
Characters standing on higher ground—such as standing on a
table, fighting from the top of a mound of dead comrades, on
top of a hill, and so on—have a combat advantage. Weapon
Skill Tests made by these characters are Ordinary (+10).
Long Range
Targets that are at a distance of more than double the range
of a character’s weapon, are at long range. Rolls to hit these
targets with a ranged weapon are Difficult (–10).
Point Blank
Rolls to hit a target within three metres with a ranged weapon
are Easy (+30). Note that this bonus does not apply when
shooting targets that are in close combat with the character.
Prone
Targets that have been Knocked Down are easier to hit
and they find it harder to hit other foes. Weapon Skill
Tests made to attack Prone targets are Ordinary (+10).
Weapon Skill and Ballistic Skill Tests made by Prone
targets are Difficult (–10). Dodge Tests made whilst
Prone are Hard (–20).
Off Hand Attacks
Weapon Skill and Ballistic Skill Tests made to attack foes
whilst you’re using a weapon in your off hand are considered
Hard (–20).
Short Range
Targets that are at a distance of less than half the Range of
a character’s weapon are at Short range. Rolls to hit these
targets with a ranged weapon are Ordinary (+10).
Shooting into Melee Combat
Ballistic Skill Tests made to hit a target in melee combat with
an opponent are Hard (–20).
Size
Size is an important factor when shooting at a target: it is
far easier to hit a Land Raider than a grav-bike for instance.
Use Table 7-9: Size Modifiers for working out bonuses and
penalties based on size.
Stunned Targets
Weapon Skill and Ballistic Skill Tests made to attack Stunned
targets are Routine (+20).
Table 7-9: Size Modifiers
Size Modifier
Minuscule (Door handle, knife) –30
Puny (Rat, servo-skull) –20
Scrawny (Child, ash slug) –10
Average (Human, mutant) 0
Hulking (Grox, combat servitor) +10
Enormous (Silt spider, Land speeder) Massive (Battle tank, scar wyrm) +20
+30
Unaware Targets
Weapon Skill or Ballistic Skill Tests made to attack unaware
targets (i.e. Surprised targets), are Easy (+30).
Unarmed
When making an unarmed attack against an armed opponent,
your Weapon Skill Test is Hard (–20).
Weather and Unnatural Conditions
Weapon Skill and Ballistic Skill Tests made to attack whilst enduring
harsh weather or unnatural conditions, such as standing in heavy
rain, an ash storm or knee-deep in waves of fungus are considered
Hard (-20).
Cover
Cover is a vital part of surviving a firefight and a good Acolyte knows
that you go for your cover first and then draw your gun. There are
no penalties to Ballistic Skill Tests made to attack targets standing
partly behind cover. However, there is a chance that the shot may hit
the cover rather than the target. It is up to the player to decide which
parts of his body he is exposing when behind cover. Unless the
Acolyte is attempting a rather crude form of psychological warfare,
as a rule of thumb, a character firing around or over cover will have
his body and legs concealed. If the shot would hit a body location
that is concealed behind cover, work out the Damage against the
Armour Points of the cover instead, with any excess being applied to
the target as normal (see Table 7-10: Cover Types for a guide to
the Armour Points of different kinds of cover).
Damaging Cover
Cover is not invulnerable. Attacks can Damage or destroy the
protection afforded by cover. Each successful hit against cover
that deals Damage in excess of the Armour Points it provides
will reduce the cover’s Armour Points by 1. For example, a
bolter shot that penetrates a light wooden door would reduce
the door’s AP to 3.
Table 7-10: Cover Types
Cover Type AP
Light Wood, Armour-glas, Light Metal 4
Heavy Wood, Flakboard, Sandbags, Ice 8
Rockcrete, Thick Iron, Stone 16
Plasteel, Armaplas 32
199Inj ury
INJURY
“Better crippled in body than corrupt in mind.”
— Lexiconum Moralis.
A
As a consequence of fighting, characters take Damage.
A combatant can take Damage up to an amount
equal to his Wounds. When the Damage equals the
character’s Wounds, he is a bloodied mess barely clinging
to consciousness. Further blows become Critical Damage,
resulting in such things as permanent disability, the loss of
limbs and of course, death.
Fatig ue
FATIGUE
Not all Damage is lethal in Dark Heresy. Exhaustion, combat
trauma or swapping licks with bare fists can all leave a
character battered, but more or less intact. Fatigue measures
the amount of non-lethal Damage a character can take over
the course of game play. Characters gain Fatigue from certain
types of attacks, Grappling, forced marching and other Actions
which push them beyond safe limits. A character can take a
number of levels of Fatigue equal to his Toughness Bonus,
so a character with a four Toughness Bonus can take four
levels of Fatigue. Should a character take a number of levels
of Fatigue in excess of his Toughness Bonus, he collapses,
unconscious for 10–TB minutes.
Characters suffering from Fatigue are at a –10 penalty to
all Tests.
Example
Drake has been on a forced march for several hours,
causing him to take two levels of Fatigue. Finally, he
arrives at the settlement of Stern Hope, and makes his way
to the local dive for a cold flagon of spitbrew. Whilst
quaffing the (slightly chunky) ale, he manages to get on
the wrong side of Slippery Zim, a local gangster. Zim
takes a swing at him with a bottle. Drake is forced to
Dodge out of the way. He makes a Dodge Skill Test, and
rolls 30. As Drake’s Agility is 34, this would normally be
a success. However, as Drake is Fatigued he would need to
roll 24 or less to successfully Dodge (34–10 = 24). Too
tired to leap out of the way properly, Drake gets the bottle
smashed into his skull.
Removing Fatigue
If left alone, Fatigue goes away in time. Each hour of rest
which includes no combat, no Psychic Powers and nothing
strenuous, removes one level of Fatigue. Eight consecutive
hours of rest remove all levels of Fatigue.
Becoming Stun n ed
BECOMING STUNNED
In addition to Wound loss and other sorts of Damage, characters
may also become Stunned. A character can become Stunned due to
the effects of some Psychic Powers, Critical Hits, or the Takedown
talent. Weapon Skill and Ballistic Skill Tests to hit Stunned characters
are considered Routine (+20). In addition, Stunned characters cannot
take Actions of any kind, even free ones like Dodge.
Characteristic
CHARACTERISTIC
DAMAGE
Damag e
Some Psychic Powers, poisons, diseases and other hazards
circumvent your Wounds and deal Damage directly to your
Characteristic. Characteristic loss cannot reduce a Characteristic
below 0. Unless otherwise specified, Characteristic Damage is
never permanent and you recover lost points at a rate of one
each hour. Remember, penalties to Characteristics as well as
Characteristic Damage may also affect the Characteristic’s
bonus. Should the Damage or penalty reduce the tens digit of a
Characteristic, the associated bonus also drops by 1.
Consult the following entries for information on what
happens if a Characteristic is reduced to 0. Remember when a
Characteristic like Strength, Toughness or Agility is reduced,
it will also reduce your corresponding Strength Bonus,
Toughness Bonus or Agility Bonus.
Weapon Skill: You may not take Tests based on this
Characteristic.
Ballistic Skill: You may not take Tests based on this
Characteristic.
Strength: You collapse into unconsciousness.
Toughness: You die.
Agility: You are paralysed and helpless. Take no Actions.
Intelligence: You slip into a dreamless coma, possibly
drooling on yourself in an embarrassing way.
Perception: You are bereft of your senses. Take a –30 penalty
to all tests (except Toughness) until you recover.
Willpower: You collapse into a nightmare filled sleep. When you
awaken, gain 1 Insanity Point (see Fear, Terror and Insanity
in Chapter VIII: The Games Master).
Fellowship: You withdraw into a catatonic state. You may
not speak or take Tests based on this Characteristic.
Damage TYPes
All Damage is divided up into four types: Energy (lasers, fire,
plasma), Explosive (grenades, bolt rounds, missiles), Impact
(clubs, bullets, falling) and Rending (swords, chain weapons,
claws). What kind of Damage a weapon or effect deals will be
noted in its description. Damage types only apply to Critical
Hits and serve to determine which Critical Effects table you
use when inflicting Critical Hits.
If it is not specified what type of Damage an attack
deals, count it as Impact. If it does not specify what
location an attack hits, count it as the Body.
200Critical Damag e CRITICAL DAMAGE
gangers and cultists, though it should not be used for PCs or
NPCs, who probably deserve better.
Any Damage taken in excess of a character’s Wounds counts
as Critical Damage. When this occurs, immediately consult
Permanent Effects
the table that corresponds with the location (arm, body,
etc.) and the type of attack (Energy, Explosive, Impact or
Rending). The Critical Damage total determines the severity
of the injury to the location. Should the character survive,
the Critical Damage still remains. If the same character
takes Damage again, the Critical Damage is added to the
existing Damage and the cumulative Damage total is used
Some Critical Effects are permanent. Should a character
suffer more than one of these effects, it’s probably time to
start looking for some bionic replacements (see Chapter V:
Armoury, page 153) or retire the poor fellow and roll up
a new one. Whenever a character suffers a permanent effect,
they apply the following changes to their character.
to determine the new Critical Effect.
Lost Hand
You take a –20 penalty on all Skill and Characteristic Tests
that rely on the use of two hands and you cannot wield two-
handed weapons. A shield can be strapped to the injured arm,
however. Should this be your primary hand, you take the
customary -20 penalty to Weapon Skill Tests made to attack
with weapons using your secondary hand. For every 100 xp
you spend, you can reduce this penalty by 10.
If you lose both hands, you can either secure at least one
replacement or get someone to sharpen your teeth.
Lost Arm
As for a lost hand, but you cannot strap a shield to the arm
since you don’t have one. Losing both arms is just as bad,
plus it’s a bit difficult to reach those hard-to-clean spots.
Once again, either look into replacement limbs or consider
rolling up a new character.
Lost Eye or Blinded
Losing one eye permanently reduces your Ballistic Skill by
-10. In addition, you take a –20 penalty to all Skill and
Characteristics Tests that rely on sight. Should you have
the misfortune to lose both eyes, you gain the Blind trait
(see Chapter XII: Aliens, Heretics & Antagonists, page
329). You can of course continue to serve the Inquisition as
you don’t need your eyes to see the truth.
Lost Foot
Reduce all your movement by half permanently (round up)
and take a –20 penalty to Skill and Characteristic Tests that
rely on mobility, such as the Dodge skill. Losing both feet
makes it hard to walk. Perhaps one of your fellow Acolytes
will carry you…
Lost Leg
Treat this as a lost foot, but you cannot use the Dodge skill.
Losing both legs makes you half the servant of the Emperor
you were—a fact not lost on your enemies.
Deafened
You cannot hear at all, or at least not well enough to
communicate with others. Until you recover or have this
disability repaired, you will automatically fail any Skill
or Characteristic Test that relies on sound. Apart from
also having trouble communicating with your fellow
Acolytes, the GM is free to decide whenever being deaf
will have. 
 ecial Imag eSPECIAL DAMAGE
The horrors of battle are not the only way to die in the
Dark Heresy universe. Acolytes may find themselves set
on fire, suffocating to death, falling from a great height or,
worst of all, exposed to the cold vacuum of space. These are
collectively known as Special Damage and they are dealt with
in this section.
Fire
Characters take Damage each Round if exposed to fire. If you
are exposed to the same fire source for two or more consecutive
Rounds (or if you are hit with a Flame weapon as detailed in
Chapter V: Armoury, page 128), you must make an Agility
Test each Round or catch on fire. Once you are blazing, you lose
1d10 Wounds (with no reduction for armour) and take 1 level
of Fatigue each Round until the fire is extinguished. All Damage
from fire is counted as Energy Damage for the purpose of Critical
Damage, and applied to the body. When on fire, a character must
make a Willpower Test to act normally, otherwise they may only
run around and scream (count as a Full Action).
Once a character is on fire, he may try and put himself out
by taking a Full Action and making a Hard (-20) Agility Test,
i.e. stop, drop and roll. The GM may make this Test easier or
harder depending on such factors as allies helping to beat out the
flames, leaping into water or loose sand, high winds etc.
FallINg
Characters can fall off things for all manner of reasons,
though the results are usually the same. To work out Damage
from falling, find the distance fallen and consult Table 7-27:
Falling Damage to work out the Damage the character
suffers. Roll on the Table 7-27: Hit Location, page 194 to
see which part of his body hits the ground first. Armour offers
no protection against falls. Damage from falling is counted as
Impact Damage for the purpose of Critical Damage.
Table 7-27: Falling Damage
Distance Fallen Damage
3 metres 1d10+3
6 metres 1d10+5
9 metres 1d10+7
12 metres 1d10+9
15 metres 1d10+11
18 metres 1d10+13
21 metres 1d10+15
24 metres 1d10+17
25+ metres 1d10+20
Suffocation
There are many ways to suffocate. Drowning is the most
common, but the inhalation of smoke and certain gases also does
the trick. The rate of suffocation depends on your activity level.
If you are actively trying to conserve oxygen, you may hold your
210
breath for a number of minutes equal to your Toughness Bonus.
Test Toughness each minute. A failure indicates that you take
1 level of Fatigue. If you do not gain a fresh source of oxygen
at the end of this period, regardless of your Fatigue level you
immediately fall unconscious and start to expire. From this point
onwards, at the end of each Round, you take 1d10 Damage until
you experience death once you reach 0 Wounds. Armour or
Toughness Bonus’ do not reduce the Damage incurred.
Example
Shawnmaker, an Arbitrator with a TB of 3, is trapped in an airless
corridor. Knowing that his allies are nearby with a lascutter, he
decides to sit down and conserve his breath. Shawnmaker can hold
his breath for three minutes, so his friends have just enough time to
slice through the corridor walls. After the first minute of breath
holding, Shawnmaker takes a level of Fatigue. After the second
minute, he takes a further level of Fatigue. Finally, after the third
minute Shawnmaker takes another level of Fatigue. If rescue does
not arrive in the fourth minute Shawnmaker will take another level
of Fatigue, fall unconscious and start to suffocate.
If you are engaged in strenuous activity (combat, swimming
and the like) you may hold your breath for a number of Rounds
equal to twice your Toughness Bonus. After this period, you
lose 1 Wound and gain a level of Fatigue at the end of each
Round. Should you fall unconscious due to Fatigue, you take
1d10 Damage at the end of each Round until death. Armour
or Toughness Bonus do not reduce the Damage incurred.
Example
Shawnmaker has a TB of 3 and 9 Wounds. He can hold his breath
under the murky waters of a hive sump for six Rounds before he
begins to take Fatigue and lose Wounds. After a further four Rounds,
he falls unconscious and begins to take 1d10 Damage each Round.
Vacuum
There is nothing good about being exposed to vacuum.
There are two ways this unfortunate event could occur: a
character can be suddenly thrust into an airless, pressureless
environment (such as being expelled from an airlock), or
they can be slowly affected (such as being trapped on a star
ship as its atmosphere is vented into space).
If suddenly exposed to vacuum, you may survive unharmed
for a number of Rounds equal to your Toughness Bonus. Unless
you have an oxygen source, you will also begin to suffer from
the effects of suffocation. At the end of each Round after this,
you suffer 1d10+3 Explosive Damage from depressurisation.
If you are in the vacuum of space, at the end of each Round
make a Toughness Test. A failure indicates that you suffer
1d10 Energy Damage from the extreme cold. In both cases,
any armour worn does not reduce the Damage incurred.
If you die in space, it takes five Rounds for your corpse to freeze. If
your corpse suffers any Damage whilst frozen, it shatters into thousands
of blood-red ice shards. There is precious little, except perhaps a
Daemonic pact, which can bring you back from such a fate.
If you are trapped in a gradually worsening atmosphere, you
may survive unharmed for a number of Rounds equal to twice your
Toughness Bonus. At the end of this time, you will begin to experience
suffocation. You will also begin to feel the effects of depressurisation.
From this point onwards, at the end of each Round you must make
a Toughness Test with a cumulative –10 penalty. Success indicates
that you take 1d5 Explosive Damage but are otherwise unaffected.
Failure means that you suffer 1d10 Explosive Damage. In both cases
armour will not reduce the Damage incurred.
for each week of rest. Once all Critical Damage has been
removed, you become Heavily Wounded instead.
Medical Attention
Medical attention is any Action by another character or by yourself
to treat your injuries. Such efforts can range from the application of
healing drugs, being the recipient of a successful Medicae Test, or
even using Psychic Powers that can restore lost Wounds. Medical
Attention can provide immediate recovery or can speed the process
of natural healing. For more information, check out the Medicae
skill in Chapter III: Skills on page 104.
Blood Loss
Characters suffering from Blood Loss have a 10% chance of dying
Damage &
Damag e & Healing
each Round unless treated in some way. Provided the character
is conscious, they may attempt a Medicae Test each Round to
staunch the bleeding. If they are stationary whilst attempting to
Healing
stop the blood, this test is merely Difficult (-10). If they are taking
part in strenuous activity, such as combat or movement, this test is
Very Hard (–30). If the character is not conscious, or doesn’t fancy
his chances, another character may attempt the test.
“Success is measured in blood; yours or your enemy’s.”
— Tactica Imperialis.
Broken Limbs
A
As you accumulate Damage, you become more injured until
finally, you suffer dreaded Critical Damage. How much
Damage you have taken determines the severity of your
injuries, describing whether you are Lightly, Heavily, or Critically
Wounded. These states determine the time it takes to heal. You remove
Damage at a fixed rate regardless of your level of activity. However,
if you spend your time resting comfortably and not engaging in any
strenuous activity (e.g. fighting, using Psychic Powers, herding Grox,
etc.), you can remove Damage more quickly.
Certain Critical Effects indicate a risk of permanently losing a limb.
To avoid this fate, the character must succeed on a Toughness Test.
Should a character with the Medicae skill be present and assisting
the injured character, the victim gains a +20 bonus to this test to
retain the limb. The limb must be held in a sling for 1d5+1 weeks
and is useless during this time.
Should this test fail, the limb must be removed, requiring a
character with the Medicae skill to succeed on a Difficult (-10)
Medicae Test. Should this fail, the limb still comes off, but
the surgery inflicts 1d10 Damage to the limb—almost always
Critical Damage. Should the amputee live, the limb comes off,
Lightly Wounded
but he suffers Blood Loss and must be treated for it. Once this
You are considered Lightly Wounded if you have taken
has been dealt with, the chirurgeon must treat the wound as if
Damage equal to or less than twice your Toughness Bonus.
it were an amputated limb (see following).
(if you have a 3 Toughness Bonus, then you are Lightly
Wounded if you take 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6 Damage.) Without
medical attention or drugs, you remove 1 Damage per day. If
you spend this time resting in bed, you remove an amount of
Damage equal to your Toughness Bonus.
Heavily Wounded
You are Heavily Wounded whenever you have taken more
Damage than twice your Toughness Bonus (so if you have
3 Toughness Bonus, you are considered Heavily Wounded
if you have taken more than 6 Damage). Without medical
attention, you remove 1 Damage per week through natural
healing. If you spend the entire week resting, you remove an
amount of Damage equal to your Toughness Bonus. Once
your Damage is equal to or less than your Toughness Bonus,
you become Lightly Wounded.
Amputated Limbs
A character that loses body parts (except for their heads—this
pretty much means death, unless you have the good fortune of
having your brain somewhere else in your body) is also affected by
Blood Loss and must be treated for that first. Should this succeed
and the character lives, someone with the Medicae skill must be
found to adequately treat the stump to ensure that it heals well.
If no medic is available, there is only a 20% chance that it will
heal over. If it does not, the amputee dies a horrible death from
infection after 1d10 days. Whether or not it heals naturally or a
medic treats it, the character will not start removing Damage for
1d10+2 days.
Critically Wounded
You are Critically Wounded whenever you have taken Critical
Damage. You do not recover without medical attention. With
medical attention, you remove 1 point of Critical Damage
Cybernetic and Bionic Replacements
It is possible to restore lost limbs with bionic replacements;
in fact, sometimes you may prefer to lop off a perfectly good
arm or leg to gain the benefits of having a cybernetic one.
The rules for both removing and attaching cybernetic, bionic
and bio-enhanced limbs, implants and weapons are detailed
fully in Chapter V: Armoury.
211
MOVEMENT
Moveme n t
“Hope is the first step on the road to disappointment.”
— Concordium dogma.
U
Under most circumstances, you need only say that you
want your character to go somewhere and eventually
he gets there. How fast the character moves rarely
matters in ordinary situations, but when it comes to some
things, the speed with which a character can move can
become very important. A chase through the streets, a charge
against a brutal Ork or any number of other factors can all
mean the difference between life and death.
During a Round, characters may move at one of four speeds:
Half Move, Full Move, Charge, or Run. The number of metres
a character may move in his Turn is determined by his Agility
Bonus. Traits can modify some or all movement speeds. Details
on these modes of movement can be found under Combat.
Table 7-28: Movement (metres/round)
AB Half Move Full Move Charge Run
0 1/2 1 2 3
1 1 2 3 6
2 2 4 6 12
3 3 6 9 18
4 4 8 12 24
5 5 10 15 30
6 6 12 18 36
7 7 14 21 42
8 8 16 24 48
9 9 18 27 54
10 10 20 30 60
In some situations, it may be important to note how fast a character
can travel in Narrative Time. Table 7-29: Narrative Movement
describes the standard speeds a character can move at a leisurely
pace under ideal circumstances. Environment (see following) can
affect these speeds, hindering the characters as they travel.
Table 7-29: Narrative Movement
AB Per Minute Per Hour Per Day†
0 12m 0.75km 7km
1 24m 1.5km 15km
2 48m 3km 30km
3 72m 4km 40km
4 96m 6km 60km
5 120m 7km 70km
6 144m 9km 90km
7 168m 10km 100km
8 192m 12km 120km
9 216m 13km 130km
10 240m 14km 140km
†Assumes 10 hours of walking.
212
NarratIVe Movement and TerraIN
Terrain conditions affect how fast your character can cover
ground during Narrative Time. Obviously, picking your way
through a death world jungle is far more laborious than
moving along a major road.
Halve distances when moving through tightly packed
foliage, dense urban areas or similarly difficult terrain.
The Game Master will determine what, if any, modifiers
apply to Narrative Time caused by the environment.
HurrYINg
Characters can pick up the pace, moving up to double their
movement in Narrative Time for a number of hours equal to
their Toughness Bonus. At the end of this time, characters
must successfully Test Toughness or take 1 level of Fatigue. In
addition, hurrying characters are less likely to pay attention
to their surroundings and thus take a –10 penalty to all
Perception Tests. Characters may push on, even with these
penalties, but they must Test Toughness, with a cumulative –10
penalty, again after a number of hours equal to their reduced
Toughness Bonus or take additional levels of Fatigue.
Example
Lucretious is hurrying to reach a research outpost, so
he covers 12 kilometres per hour. His Toughness is 41,
so he can hurry for four hours before he needs to Test
Toughness.
RuNNINg and NarratIVe Time
Characters can run during Narrative Time, but doing so is
tiring. When running, a character triples his rate of movement,
but each hour of sustained running requires the character to
Test Toughness, with a cumulative –10 penalty per hour after
the first, to sustain the pace. On a failed Test, the character
takes 1 level of Fatigue. Characters moving at this brisk pace
are focused on running and watching their steps, so they take a
–20 penalty to all Perception Tests. As with hurrying, characters
can continue running after a failed Test, but penalties gained
from multiple failed Tests are cumulative.
Example
Kyba has a TB of 2 and runs to reach the village ahead of the Orks,
some 30 kilometres away, who should arrive in four hours. She
normally moves at 4kph. But because she’s running, she’s moving
12kph, meaning she’ll reach the village in just over two hours if
she can sustain the pace. After the first hour of running, she Tests
Toughness and fails. She takes 1 level of Fatigue. After her second
hour, she’s covered 24 kilometres, but she needs to Test Toughness
again, this time at a -20 penalty. She fails again! Half an hour later,
Kyba reaches the village exhausted, having taken 2 levels of Fatigue.
ClimbingForced MarchINg
CLIMBING
There’s nothing stopping characters from pushing themselves
There are bound to be times when you want to climb over a
beyond the standard ten hours of marching. Characters may
wall, scale a cliff, or scramble up a tree to escape the claws of
safely push themselves for a number of extra hours equal to their
a vicious xenos. Any character with both hands free can climb
Toughness Bonus. Beyond this, a character must Test Toughness,
any non-sheer surface with a Strength (or Climb) Test. On a
with a cumulative –10 penalty per hour, for each hour he travels
success, you ascend or descend at a rate of one-half your Half
beyond his Toughness Bonus. A failed Test indicates that the
Move speed (to a minimum of a 1/2 metre). For each degree
character takes a level of Fatigue. It is possible to march oneself
of success, you climb an extra metre. On a failed Test, you
into unconsciousness. Fatigue taken from forced marching is
fall from your starting climbing position. Climbing Difficulty
removed after the character has rested for two hours for each
varies with the nature of the climbing surface, though most
hour they marched beyond their Toughness Bonus.
tests should be Challenging (+0).
Movem e n t and
Sheer Surfaces
MOVEMENT AND
Environm e n t
ENVIRONMENT
The movement rates for characters described on Table 7-28:
Movement (Metres/Round) assume a relatively clear battlefield.
There may be a few obstacles, puddles or wisps of fog, but
characters can more or less, move at their standard rates. There are,
however, some circumstances that reduce a character’s speed. These
can include rubble-strewn hallways, deep snow, dense fog, thick
underbrush and a variety of other conditions that make it tough to
navigate. In such environments, a character’s movement is halved.
If a character charges or runs, he must succeed on an Agility Test
or fall prone. The difficulty of this Test depends on the terrain. See
Table 7-30: Treacherous Environments for suggestions.
Certain surfaces are beyond the means of ordinary characters
to climb. Naked stone walls without hand-holds, vertical
ascents and overhangs all require some skill at climbing to
navigate. You may attempt a Climb Skill Test to climb these
surfaces at one-half your Half Move speed. Otherwise, you
must have tools such as a knotted rope or blanket, rope ladder
or ladder. If you can take your time and are not threatened by
opponents, you may ascend at one-half your Half Move rate
without Testing Strength. You may try to climb more quickly
or when you are being attacked, but you must Test Strength
as if you were climbing a non-sheer surface.
Abseiling
You can descend ropes and ladders more quickly by abseiling.
You descend at a rate of 10 metres per Round with a successful
Agility Test. If the Test is failed, the rate is reduced to 5 metres
per Round. However, if the Test is failed by two or more
degrees, you must Test Strength or lose your grip. Unless you
have a climbing harness, you fall.
Table 7-30: Treacherous Environments
Condition Difficulty
Fog or Smoke Ordinary (+10)
Mud Challenging (+0)
Shallow Water Challenging (+0)
Darkness Difficult (–10)
Snow Difficult (–10)
Underbrush Difficult (–10)
Dense Crowds Hard (–20)
Zero Gravity Hard (–20)
Rubble Hard (–20)
Tremors Hard (–20)
The Effects of GraVIty
Although the inhabited worlds of the Imperium may vary slightly in terms of gravity, the effects on game play are
minimal. Only when characters explore high- or low-gravity worlds are movement, lifting and other factors affected.
Low Gravity Worlds
On worlds of low gravity, all characters increase their Agility Bonus by 2 for the purposes of movement . In addition, characters add 4 to
the total of their Strength Bonus and Toughness Bonus for the purpose of determining carrying, lifting and pushing limits. Characters
also add 2 to their Strength Bonus for determining how far they can throw objects. Double all Jumping and Leaping distances.
High Gravity Worlds
On worlds of high gravity, all characters decrease their Agility Bonus by 2 (to a minimum of 1) for the purposes of
movement. In addition, characters subtract 4 (to a minimum 0) from the total of their Strength Bonus and Toughness Bonus
for the purpose of determining carrying, lifting and pushing limits. Characters also subtract 2 from their Strength Bonus (to
a minimum of 0) for determining how far they can throw objects. Finally, halve all Jumping and Leaping distances.
213
Jumping
JUMPING
A Jump is a controlled vertical ascent or descent that generally
allows you to reach a ledge overhead or land on your feet. If
you’re pushed, or plummet, you’re not Jumping but falling
(see Falling).
JumPINg Up
You can make a standing Jump to hop up to reach
something above you or land on a higher level. Doing
so requires an Agility Test. On a success, you Jump up a
number of centimetres equal to 20 times your Strength
Bonus. For each degree of success, you add another number
of centimetres equal to 10 times your Strength Bonus.
Example
Our friend Keira is on a rooftop. To get onto the building
containing her target, she must make a Leap of four metres.
Keira has 36 Strength (3 SB) so she had better roll well
or she’s going to splatter on the street below. Keira backs
up eight metres and then starts her run. She crosses the
distance and then makes a Strength Test. Because she ran
four extra metres, she gets a +10 bonus to her Strength
Test. She rolls and gets a 26! A success by two degrees
(36+10=46). If she had just succeeded on the Test, she
would have leapt three metres, but because she got two
degrees of success, she instead leapt four metres, which is
just enough to cross the gap.
Vertical Distance
Example
Keira wants to Jump up and catch the lip of a ledge
about one metre (100 centimetres) over her head. She
has a 36 Strength (3 SB). She rolls and gets a 22. She
Should it be important, the height you attain while leaping is
equal to one quarter the distance in metres travelled. A result
of 0 or less means that you gained enough altitude to leap,
but not enough to clear any obstacles.
succeeds with one degree of success. So, she Jumps up 90
centimetres ([SB×20]+30). Not quite enough for her to
grab the edge of the ledge.
Swimming
SWIMMING
A character doesn’t need to make a Swim Test under ideal
circumstances, but hazardous conditions such as rough waters,
hands being tied, or swimming whilst fighting all require Swim
Tests to move. To swim under hazardous conditions, you must
make a Swim Test as a Move Action. A success indicates that
you move in any direction up to a number of metres equal to
one-half your Strength Bonus or simply tread water at your
option. A failed Test means that you make no progress and
cannot move. If you fail by 2 degrees or more, you sink one
metre for every 20kg of your weight.
Characters that are unable to swim for some reason
(unconsciousness, paralysis etc.) automatically sink one metre of
depth for each 20kg of their weight on their Turn. Theoretically,
a character could sink all the way to the bottom and walk their
way out of the water if they can hold their breath long enough.
SWImmINg and NarratIVe Time
Prolonged swimming can be exhausting. You may swim for
a number of hours equal to your Toughness Bonus (simply
substitute your Strength Bonus for Agility Bonus to determine
how much distance you travel each hour). After this point, you
must make a Toughness Test, with a cumulative –10 penalty
per hour and each hour thereafter. On a failed Test, you take
1 level of Fatigue. If knocked unconscious from Fatigue, you
sink and probably drown.
JumPINg DoWN
When Jumping down, you must make an Agility Test for
each metre of descent. On a failed Test, you stop making
Agility Tests and fall the remaining distance. So if you fail
the first Test, you fall the entire distance and take Damage
for falling (see Falling).
Leaping
LEAPING
A Leap is a horizontal jump. It is used to traverse from roof to
roof or to cross chasms, ditches and so on. There are two types of
Leap: running and standing. In both cases, they are Full Actions.
RuNNINg Leaps
In a Running Leap, you must move at least four metres in a straight
line leading up to the Leap. At the end of your movement, you
Leap across a number of metres equal to your Strength Bonus.
Make a Strength Test. For each degree of success, you Leap an
extra 50 centimetres. For each degree of failure, you Leap 50
centimetres less (minimum 0 metres—you probably move a few
dozen centimetres, but not a full metre). For every four metres
run up beyond those required for the Leap you get a +10 bonus
(maximum +30) to your Strength Test.
StandINg Leaps
A Standing Leap is similar to a Running Leap, except, obviously,
you don’t have to run first. You calculate your distance as a
running Leap, but you take a –10 penalty to your Strength Test.
214
MOVING &
Moving & Li fting
EXCEEDING YOUR
Ex ceeding y our Carry ing Limits
LIFTING
CARRYING LIMITS
If you find yourself carrying more than your normal carrying limits
and less than your lifting limit, you are encumbered. You take a
“The mortal burden carried dutifully to its destination is the
–10 penalty to all movement-related Tests and reduce your Agility
Emperor’s greaTest praise.”
Bonus by 1 for the purposes of determining movement rates. In
— Lexconicum Moralis.
addition, after a number of hours equal to your Toughness Bonus
N
have passed while carrying this weight, you must successfully
make a Toughness Test or take 1 level of Fatigue.
of each item of your equipment you’re carrying.
Normally, you don’t need to keep track of how much
While handling weights at your lifting or pushing limits, to
Characters in Dark Heresy are assumed to be able
move at your normal rate requires a Full Action.
to shoulder their backpacks, carry their weapons and don
You can try to lift or push more than your limit by Testing
armour without being too hampered. However, there are
Strength. Each degree of success on a Strength Test adds a
likely to be instances where it’s useful to know how much
+1 bonus to the sum of your Strength Bonus and Toughness
your character can reasonably lift.
Bonus for the purpose of determining your limits. If you fail
The amount of weight a character can move depends on
this Test by 2 degrees or more, you take 1 level of Fatigue.
the sum of your character’s Strength Bonus and Toughness
Bonus. Compare the total to Table 7-31: Carrying, Lifting,
and Pushing to find out the limits of your might. Note that
Throwing
THROWING
certain Traits may increase these values.
As described in Chapter V: Armoury, some weapons are
designed to be thrown. The further away the target is from
you, the harder it is to hit the target. While ranges for these
weapons are determined by your modified Strength Bonus,
this system doesn’t cover objects not designed for throwing,
such as bags of sand, bricks, and so on.
You can throw any object whose weight is equal to or less
than half of your lifting weight. To see how far the object
travels, Test Strength. A successful Test means that the object
flies a number of metres equal to your Strength Bonus. For
each degree of success, this distance increases by a factor of
1, so one degree means that you throw the object a number
of metres equal to twice your SB, two degrees means that the
object is thrown a number of metres equal to your SB×3,
three degrees at SB×4 and so on. On a failed Test, the object
flies a number of metres equal to half your Strength Bonus
(round down; a result of 0 means it fell at your feet). If the
object hits a hard surface such as a wall, it takes 1d10+SB
Damage plus 1 for every degree of success on your Test.
If you’re throwing such an object as an improvised weapon
you must make a Ballistics Skill Test rather than a Strength
Test. Throwing heavier objects more than half than your
lifting weight, but no more than your lifting weight, imposes
a Hard (–20) Test penalty.
Table 7-31: Carrying, Lifting & Pushing
Total Carry†
Lift‡
Push¥
0 0.9kg 2.25kg 4.5kg
1 2.25kg 4.5kg 9kg
2 4.5kg 9kg 18kg
3 9kg 18kg 36kg
4 18kg 36kg 72kg
5 27kg 54kg 108kg
6 36kg 72kg 144kg
7 45kg 90kg 180kg
8 56kg 112kg 225kg
9 67kg 135kg 270kg
10 78kg 157kg 315kg
11 90kg 180kg 360kg
12 112kg 225kg 450kg
13 225kg 450kg 900kg
14 337kg 675kg 1,350kg
15 450kg 900kg 1,800kg
16 675kg 1,350kg 2,700kg
17 900kg 1,800kg 3,600kg
18 1,350kg 2,700kg 5,400kg
19 1,800kg 3,600kg 7,200kg
20 2,250kg 4,500kg 9,000kg
†Carrying Weight indicates how much you can comfortably carry.
‡Lifting Weight describes how much you can lift off the ground.
¥Pushing Weight describes how much weight you can shove.
215
Lig hting
LIGHTING
“If you dare enter these dark times, enter.”
— Ordos Hereticus Maxim.
M
Many adventures in Dark Heresy take place under
the cover of night, in the shadowy depths of caves,
or in the dank and foetid underhive. As a result, the
oppressive darkness becomes a constant enemy, concealing
countless terrors and monstrous threats in its depths. For
these reasons, light sources are of paramount importance
when exploring the dark places of the Imperium.
For simplicity, Dark Heresy uses three levels of light:
Bright, Shadow and Darkness. Bright light is any light that
allows normal vision, such as sunlight or being within the
radius of a torch, glo-lantern, candle and so on. Shadow
occurs whenever a normal light source is obscured such as
by fog, distance or some similar effect. Darkness, naturally
enough, is the absence of light.
Aside from the obvious effects of Darkness and Shadow—being
the inability to see, areas of Shadow and Darkness can interfere
with a character’s movement and combat capabilities. Characters
may move through areas of Shadow at no penalty, but may move
at only half speed or less through Darkness. Exceeding this speed
means that the character may drift in a random direction unless
the character succeeds on a Hard (-20) Perception Test. For the
effects of lighting on combat, see Combat.
Fly ing
FLYING
“It is my belief that foreign travel narrows the mind wonderfully.”
— Helem Boesch, Ordo Xenos.
Flying is not a common occurrence for characters in
Dark Heresy. Aside from certain rare pieces of tech,
or managing to convince a flying creature to hold you,
the odds are that the Acolytes will live and die with both feet
on the ground. This said, there are plenty of creatures in the
Warhammer 40,000 universe that do benefit from the ability
to fly and when they attack it changes the character of the
battlefield in challenging ways. The following rules provide
an abstract system for dealing with flying.
Altitude
On a planet, there are three broad altitude levels: Hovering, Low,
and High. You can change altitude by one level (up or down)
during each Move Action taken. If you’re using the Charge or
Run Actions, you can change altitudes by two levels.
Hovering
Hovering means that you are skimming just above the ground,
no higher than two metres. You can move over obstacles or
pits with ease, but attacks can affect you as normal. You can
both attack and be attacked by creatures on the ground.
216
Low
This altitude indicates that you are flying no more than 15
metres above the ground. You cannot attack or be attacked in
melee, but ranged attacks and Psychic Powers are possible. You
take no penalties for shooting downwards, but those firing up
at you treat you as being 16 metres further away and take a -10
penalty to their Ballistic Skill Tests made to attack you.
High
When flying at this altitude, you are flying far above the
ground, beyond the range of all attacks, even those coming
from low altitude. You can only attack or be attacked by other
creatures flying at High altitude.
Example
Hybris has secured a powerful grav-harness, granting
him a flying movement of 6. On the first Round, he
goes from the ground to Hovering and moves 12 metres.
On the second Round, he ascends from Hovering to Low
altitude and moves another 12 metres. Should a renegade
PDF trooper 24 metres away now shoot at Hybris, the
Range would be 40 metres because flying at Low altitude
adds 16 metres to the Range.
FlYINg Movement
Flying creatures and characters are broken up into two
categories, each of which is a Trait (see Chapter XII: Aliens,
Heretics & Antagonists). They are Hoverers and Flyers.
Hoverers can move through the air, but are incapable of
gaining more than 2 metres of altitude. A Flyer can go high
into the sky, just like a bird.
Each Trait has an associated number. This number describes
the character or creature’s Flying Movement. This works just
like regular movement, but applies only when the creature
is flying. In the case of spells and other supernatural effects,
Flying Movement is included in its description.
When flying, a character must spend at least one Move
Action on his Turn each Round or he’ll fall. Hoverers simply
land, which causes no Damage. Flyers at Low altitude take
Damage from a 15 metre fall, while those at High altitude take
Damage from a 25+ metre fall. See Falling on page 210 for
more details. The Charge, Attack and Run Actions both count
as movement for the purposes of staying in the air.